student handbook sunway university student handbook contents sunway university: vision, mission, creed and educational goals 7 message from the group registrar 8 section 1: introduction 9



    1.1 general information 9



    1.2 other university handbook 9



    1.3 schools, departments and centres 10



    1.4 campuses 11 section 2: student roles and responsibilities 12



    2.1 sunway university student charter 12



    2.2 student responsibilities 14



    2.3 personal data protection act (pdpa) 14



    2.4 complaints and grievances policy 15



    2.5 student feedback 16



    2.6 university rules 16



    2.7 zero tolerance against substance abuse 16



    2.8 blogging 17



    2.9 smoking and vaping 17



    2.10 students with disabilities 17 section 3: programme expectations and requirements 18



    3.1 academic calendars 18



    3.2 academic dates and important deadlines 18



    3.3 university fees and charges 19



    3.4 conditional offer 20



    3.5 orientation 20



    3.6 reporting for classes 20



    3.7 student portal and learning management system 21



    3.7.1 izone 21



    3.7.2 elearn 21



    3.7.3 imail 21



    3.8 programme delivery 21 3



    3.9 timetables 22



    3.10 subject selection 22



    3.11 credit exemption 22



    3.12 subject enrolment and pre-enrolment 23



    3.12.1 subject enrolment 23



    3.12.2 changes to subject enrolments 23



    3.12.3 subject withdrawal 23



    3.13 mohe compulsory general studies subjects (mpu) 24



    3.14 attendance 25 section 4: administrative matters and procedures 26



    4.1 sources of administration information 26



    4.2 programme handbooks 26



    4.3 student identification 27



    4.4 correspondence information update 27



    4.5 formal document request 28



    4.6 deferment or leave of absence 28



    4.7 transfer request (programme/intake/study mode) 29



    4.8 financial hold status 29



    4.9 appeals 29



    4.10 official withdrawal 30



    4.11 programme completion 30



    4.12 certificate and endorsement 30 section 5: examination and assessment 31



    5.1 examination arrangements 31



    5.2 absence from examination 31



    5.3 academic malpractice 32



    5.3.1 cheating in examinations and coursework 32



    5.3.2 plagiarism 32



    5.3.3 warning concerning copyright restrictions 33



    5.4 appeal against university decision 33 section 6: international students 34



    6.1 international student support 34



    6.2 student pass 35



    6.3 attendance 36



    6.4 health insurance requiremen 36 4 sunway university student handbook



    6.5 important reminders 37 section 7: student support 38



    7.1 student life department 38



    7.2 university placement services 41



    7.3 centre for english language studies 41



    7.4 malaysian government loan and sponsorship bodies 41



    7.4.1 perbadanan tabung pendidikan tinggi nasional loan (ptptn) 41



    7.4.2 other sponsorship bodies 41 section 8: facilities and services 42



    8.1 tun hussein onn sunway library 43



    8.2 computing and it services 44



    8.2.1 it learning labs 44



    8.2.2 it helpdesk counters 44



    8.2.3 student access accounts and wifi 44



    8.2.4 the vine, izone, elearn and imail 45



    8.3 bring your own device (byod) policy 45



    8.4 science and specialised laboratories 46



    8.5 safety and health 47



    8.5.1 fire emergency 48



    8.5.2 accident and incident reporting 48



    8.5.3 lightning warning . 48



    8.5.4 disability services 49



    8.5.5 evacuation plan 49



    8.5.6 location of health and safety office and nightingale bay 50



    8.6 campus security service 50



    8.7 sports facilities 51



    8.8 accommodation 52



    8.9 bookshop 53



    8.10 public transportation 53 section 9: other services 54 section 10: lifestyle and outside campus 55 appendix a: code of conduct in examinations 60 appendix b: guidelines on academic malpractice 62 appendix c: arrangements for the assessment of students with disabilities 71 appendix d: guidelines on academic appeal 73 5 disclaimer the information provided in this guide is correct at the time of printing. sunway university reserves the right to make changes to the procedures, fees and regulations from time to time as it deems necessary without prior notice. students should read carefully all information on official correspondence, notice boards (including electronic blackboard) and other sources of information for students to be aware of changes and updates to the information published in this guide and also in the other handbooks. students should always refer to staff at the relevant school or centre or department before enrolment. the information in this handbook is correct as at 1 january 2024. 6 sunway university student handbook sunway university vision, mission, creed and educational goals vision to be a world class university mission to nurture all-round individuals and devote ourselves to the discovery, advancement, transmission and application of knowledge that meet the needs of our society and the global community our creed sunway university will carry out its mission with integrity and unwavering dedication to excellence, enterprise, professionalism, financial self-reliance, innovation, mutual respect and team spirit our educational goals sunway university students will: • become independent, lifelong learners who actively pursue knowledge and appreciate its global application to economic, political, social and cultural development • be empowered with the competencies and capacity to contribute to a fast- changing economic, social and technological world • develop strong leadership qualities and communication skills • be prepared for careers that enable them to lead productive, fulfilling and meaningful lives • value integrity and become ethical, accountable, caring and responsible members of society sunway university seeks to carry out its mission with integrity and unwavering commitment to quality, service and excellence, financial self-reliance and professionalism, through continuous improvement, innovation, dedication, caring, mutual respect and team spirit. 7 welcome message i t is my great pleasure to welcome all plan your studies well and complete your new students to sunway university. studies on time. congratulations on your successful section 6 of this document provides very admission to the various programmes important information to international in sunway university for the 2024 students. as such, i hope all international academic year. you have made the students will take note of the information right decision to join this institution and requirements stated in this section. where young people come together to information on student support, facilities, learn from the best, to get first-hand resources and services available on the knowledge through hands-on learning campus are provided in the following and to be exposed to global intellectual sections. besides equipping the campus discourse in an experiential environment. with state-of-the-art teaching and learning to help you navigate your life as a student facilities, the university also endeavours to here at sunway university, the registry has provide students with the right ecosystem prepared this student handbook for you. and support so that you are able to enjoy a holistic student life. this document contains information on campus services and resources available this is an organic document and is subject to students, general rules and regulations, to change throughout the year. you are enrolment matters and important dates. therefore encouraged to regularly check this document serves as your main the online version at the registry portal for source of reference on official information updates. i hope you will benefit from the related to academic administration and information provided in this document. your responsibilities as a student in the university. it is hoped that you will use the ms ng beng lean information provided in this document to group registrar 8 sunway university student handbook section 1 general information



    1.1 general information the student handbook is designed to complement the sunway university – code of conduct and your programme handbooks. these publications provide the information you need to make the most out of your learning experience with sunway university. the student handbook contains information you need to know about your roles and responsibilities as a student. you will also find information about the academic department, facilities and campus services available at sunway university campus. it is your responsibility to read and be conversant with the rules and regulations stated in the above publications. you will be expected to have this knowledge when studying at sunway university. the student handbook will be updated from time to time and the latest copy is posted at https://izone.sunway.edu.my



    1.2 other university handbook sunway university publishes the following handbooks: the sunway university this handbook has been made –student code of conduct available to all students at (published by registry) https://izone.sunway.edu.my student handbook for incorporating information for students postgraduate programmes undertaking the sunway university (published by school/centre/department) postgraduate programmes. programme handbook incorporating programme information for (published by school/centre/department) students. 9 section 1 schools, departments and centres sunway business school (sbs) • centre for research-creation in digital media • department of accounting • centre for south asian and indian ocean studies • department of economics and finance • department of management school of mathematical • department of marketing strategy & innovation sciences (sms) • department of business analytics • department of actuarial science & risk • sunway centre for environmental social governance • department of pure and applied mathematics • centre for commercial law and justice • department of applied statistics • jeffrey sachs centre on sustainable development • centre for actuarial and analytics research • jeffrey cheah institute on southeast asia • yunus social business centre school of hospitality and service management (shsm) school of engineering and • asia pacific centre for hospitality research technology (set) • centre for hospitality innovation and leadership • department of engineering • department of computing and information system school of education (soe) • research centre for nano-materials and energy • department of professional and continuing education • research centre for carbon dioxide capture and • department of educational development and innovation utilization • centre for higher education research • sunway centre for electrochemical energy and sustainable technology school of american education • research centre for human-machine collaboration (sae) • department of american degree transfer programme school of medical and life • department of liberal arts and sciences sciences (smls) • department of medical sciences university centres • department of psychology • sunway centre for planetary health • department of nursing • future cities research institute • department of medical education • institute for global strategy and competitiveness • department of biological sciences • centre for english language studies • aging health and well-being research centre • sustainable development solutions network asia • sunway biofunctional molecules discovery centre • sunway innovation labs • sunway microbiome centre to get more information about the courses, school of arts (soa) programmes that are offered by the • department of communication schools, departments and centres in • department of film and performing arts sunway university, please visit the website: • department of art, design and media https://sunwayuniversity.edu.my/ 10 sunway university student handbook campuses sunway has five campuses operating at different locations in malaysia. sunway college operating address (bandar sunway): no 2, jalan universiti, bandar sunway 47500 selangor darul ehsan. tel: 03-5638 7176 website: college.sunway.edu.my operating address (velocity): v01-06-01, lingkaran sv sunway velocity, 55100 kuala lumpur sunway college johor bahru tel: 03-97701155 no 3 jalan austin heights utama, website: sunway.edu.my/velocity taman mount austin, 81100 johor bahru, johor darul ta’zim. sunway university tel: 07-359 6880 no 5 jalan universiti, bandar sunway fax: 07-359 6881 47500 selangor darul ehsan. website: sunway.edu.my/jb tel: 03-7491 8622 fax: 03-5635 8630 sunway college kuching website: university.sunway.edu.my no.1, song plaza (1st floor), lot 12168, block 16, jalan tun jugah / jalan song intersection, 93350 kuching, sarawak, malaysia tel: 082-451 221 fax: 082-461 226 website:swck.edu.my sunway college ipoh no 1, 3 & 5, persiaran sci 2/2, sunway city ipoh, 31150 ipoh, perak darul ridzuan. tel: 05-545 4398 fax: 05-547 4926 website: sunway.edu.my/ipoh 11 section 2 student roles and responsibilities



    2.1 sunway university student charter sunway university is committed to providing a safe and enriching environment to help students achieve their full potential. the student charter outlines the approach sunway university takes to support the students’ learning and help them achieve their full potential. the charter also outlines the key expectations and responsibilities of a student at sunway university. the student charter encourages positive interaction between students and staff. the success of this partnership requires commitment and participation from both parties. the charter is also intended to be an evolving document which will be reviewed periodically in the light of feedback and experience and is in no way a detailed personal agreement or contract. sunway university is expected to: •provide high quality teaching and learning which will enhance student learning and development; • provide a safe and conducive environment for study, research and other activities; •ensure that staff are courteous, professional and efficient; •maintain effective communication with students, provide accurate and timely feedback about programmes, services and processes; •provide useful feedback on assessment/academic work and opportunities for discussion; •ensure students are treated equally and fairly by rejecting discrimination and harassment; • provide clear information on fees and other costs of studying and payment methods; •provide information on student support services available in the university; •ensure that students contribute and participate in decision making through the student council; 12 sunway university student handbook •provide an assessment system which is fair and transparent to all students; •provide reasonable access to teaching staff/research supervisors to discuss programme matters; •provide reasonable access to the university facilities and resources (e.g. library, it labs); •seek student feedback in improving courses and services in the university; •provide appropriate guidance in the completion of undergraduate/postgraduate studies; •offer suitable research topics based on the availability of facilities/resources and qualified supervisors in the field of intended research; •appoint qualified examiners to evaluate final thesis/dissertation. students are expected to: •familiarise themselves with the university rules and regulations; •be committed in their studies and take the responsibility to monitor their own progress in the chosen programme; •ensure that all requirements and regulations of the programme or research are followed; •respect all university staff and other students; avoid discrimination and harassment; •use university facilities in a responsible manner (including library, it labs); •activate and utilise the university official student email account in the duration of study to ensure accurate communication between university and students (e.g. results notification, outstanding fees); •attend classes, submit assessment as required and fulfil attendance requirement; •provide honest feedback and comments about their academic programmes, learning experience and services through surveys; •pay all fees and charges within the deadline set by the university; •enroll correctly according to programme requirements and pre-requisites to ensure graduating in the chosen programme; •participate in the election of the student council who are representatives of the student body; •recognise that plagiarism is not acceptable; •seek advice when required from teaching staff and support services (e.g. counselling, health, etc.); •behave in a responsible manner and act as ambassadors for the university; •maintain regular contact with teaching staff/supervisors for advice and constructive feedback; •inform research supervisors if there are special needs required in completing the postgraduate research; •protect any intellectual property throughout the course of research and ensure all ethical procedures are followed. 13 section 2



    2.2 student responsibilities as a student of sunway university, it is your responsibility to: • apply yourself fully to your studies. • be familiar with the rules and regulations governing the programme in which you are enrolled. • ensure that you have selected the subjects to meet your programme requirements. • be punctual and attend all lectures, tutorials, practical sessions and seminars (if applicable) for each subject in which you are enrolled. • meet deadlines for coursework to be submitted. • submit original work without plagiarising or cheating. • take the initiative and consult appropriately when encountering problems. • be aware of the policies and practices of the university and of any academic or non-academic department contained in the materials and information made available to you. • be aware of the rules and regulations concerning the use of campus facilities – it, library, laboratories, etc. • demonstrate tolerance and respect for other students and all staff of the university. • provide constructive feedback to the university regarding academic and administrative matters when necessary.



    2.3 personal data protection act (pdpa) sunway education group respects and is committed to the protection of your personal information and your privacy. this personal data protection notice explains how we collect and handle your personal information in accordance with the malaysian personal data protection act 2010. please note that the institution may amend this personal data protection notice at any time without prior notice and will notify you of any such amendment via our website or by email. detailed information is available at http://sunway.edu.my/pdpa/notice_english.html 14 sunway university student handbook



    2.4 complaints and grievances policy this policy ensures that grievances and complaints are quickly and effectively resolved using standard procedures. purpose: • ensure that the rights of both the university and the student are protected when a student submits a complaint or grievance. • ensure that the university processes enable student grievances and complaints to be resolved quickly and effectively. • ensure that the resolution of student complaints and grievances follows standard procedures across all departments in the university. what is a grievance? if you believe that you have been treated unfairly, you can seek explanation and/or help. such issues may concern an academic or administrative decision, the behavior of staff, the quality of teaching, the provision of services in the university, etc. however, the policy does not cover unsatisfactory academic progress, discipline, and exclusion for health and safety reasons. whom should i talk to about my grievance? most complaints can be resolved immediately. first, talk to the person about your concerns to see if your issue can be resolved. this person can be a student or a staff member of the university. if such a discussion is not appropriate or you feel uncomfortable about approaching the person, you may direct the complaint to the next appropriate level, such as your school/centre manager or the hod. a senior member of staff will be assigned to investigate and attempt to conciliate the matter after receiving a complaint. if the issue cannot be resolved at this level, you may submit a formal grievance (in written form) to the group registrar of sunway university. 15 section 2



    2.5 student feedback student feedback is considered to be a vital element of the programme since it is through such feedback that the programme can be improved. there are a number of mechanisms for student feedback: • at the end of each semester, an evaluation questionnaire will be issued. •`each intake is entitled to nominate a student to act as representative on the student-staff committee. the committee meets once every long semester and encourages dialogue between students and staff in areas of administration, learning and teaching. • students are entitled to raise matters of concern or complaint with the lecturer, project supervisors or programme coordinator. • where appropriate a complaint may be made directly to the dean.



    2.6 university rules the sunway university - student code of conduct contains information about the general rules and regulations applicable. the sunway university - student code of conduct contains information about the general rules and regulations applicable to all students studying at the university. it also covers general policies and procedures which include student discipline proceedings. you may visit https://vine.sunway.edu.my to get the latest copy.



    2.7 zero tolerance against substance abuse the use, possession, sale, or distribution of any drug or substance which is stated in the first schedule to the dangerous drugs ordinance, 1952, and as amended and supplemented from time to time and other related laws and regulations on illicit drugs, or controlled substances is strictly prohibited on campus premises. the institution has zero tolerance against substance abuse, and any student found to be in violation , whether on or off-campus, will be subject to disciplinary action, including suspension and/or expulsion. this applies to all registered students of the institution.



    2.8 blogging you are advised to exercise caution when posting information (in any form) on the internet and avoid writing anything defamatory or seditious in your posting against the reputation of sunway university and staff (including lecturers). the university may take disciplinary action against any student committing such offences if it deems that the posted information is offensive. 16 sunway university student handbook



    2.9 smoking and/or vaping smoking and/or vaping is strictly prohibited when you are in all areas of sunway campus (including areas such as car parks, sports facilities, toilets and campus accommodation). this prohibition covers all forms of smoking including cigarettes, real or electronic, pipes and other smoking utensils.



    2.10 students with disabilities students are strongly encouraged to disclose any disability (physical or learning difficulty) information to and seek advice and support from the programme leader/coordinator. the university will seek to make reasonable adjustments to support the student whilst on the programme. the operation of appropriate special arrangements can be supported for students undertaking assessment, including timed examinations where a valid claim has been made and agreed in accordance with the relevant procedures (appendix c). requests for special arrangements may be refused where insufficient notice is given. 17 section 3 programme expectations and requirements



    3.1 academic calendars academic calendars are published on a yearly basis and they are available in the learning management system, elearn.



    3.2 academic dates and important deadlines each semester period is determined by a start-date and an end-date. another important date within a semester period is the “add/drop subject period”, which normally takes place within the first 2 weeks of a semester. this is the period where your subject enrolment is to be finalised. you are not allowed to change your subject enrolment for the semester after the add/drop subject period. it is important to note that, certain fees paid are neither transferable nor refundable whether or not the adjustment of enrolment takes place within the add/drop subject period. it is your responsibility to make yourself aware of the semester periods of the programme enrolled; the relevant add/drop subject period and financial penalties. students should take note of the following deadlines long semester short semester (14 weeks) (7 weeks) subject enrolment before week 1 before week 1 last date to add/drop subjects end of week 2 end of week 1 last date for subject withdrawal end of week 10 end of week 5 (with notation “w” in transcript) *the tuition fee and other fees are stipulated in the fees structure of your programme. semester fees must be paid in full on or before the commencement of new semester. 18 sunway university student handbook



    3.3 university fees and charges fees due must be paid at the beginning of each semester. the management reserves the right to exclude a student from attending classes and using campus facilities until the fees due are paid up. any assessment or examination result(s), and academic transcripts shall be withheld if payment remains outstanding, and students concerned will not be able to enrol in subsequent semester or to graduate. types of fees • enrolment fee : upon accepting the offer of a place (non-refundable) • deposit : refundable • international admin fee : payable by semester * • tuition fee : payable by semester * • student resource fee 1 : payable by semester * • compulsory general studies subject fee : payable by subject other fees2 (according to the programme enrolled) • lab fee (computer/it/science related subjects) • security deposit • placement fee • practical fee • uniform and utensils fee • examination/exemption fee (internal/external) • literacy test fee • student pass/special pass fee for visa endorsement/extension for more information about the types of fee payable, please refer to the fees structure of the respective programme. * (for malaysian only) *terms and conditions apply for international students. please refer to the international office(io) for more information. 1. the student resource fee will be revised on a yearly basis and subject to change without prior notice. 2. other fees may exist, which are not listed in the above table. 19 section 3



    3.4 conditional offer if you are currently studying in a programme under condition(s), you should request for a review of your current status at the earliest possible date. the review must be made within the first semester of your study or within the period specified in your offer letter. students with forecast/pending results must submit a certified true copy of their actual results to the registry within 10 working days from the official release date of the actual results. failure to convert your conditional offer status on time will lead to your registration in the current programme being terminated. further query and/or request for a review of your current status can be made at the registry or by email at srga-op@sunway.edu.my.



    3.5 orientation orientation will be conducted at the beginning of each intake for new students before the first semester commences. it is designed to help you settle into the university by providing you with the important information you need at the start of your studies. you will be given relevant briefings to familiarise yourself with the policies and regulations governing your studies as well as guided tours to the various departments in the sunway university campus.



    3.6 reporting for classes you are expected to report for classes “(orientation) is designed at the beginning of each semester of the to help you settle into the programme enrolled. in the event that you university by providing are unable to do so, you must inform your you with the important hod or school/centre manager in written information you need at the form explaining your circumstances. you will then be advised to take the necessary start of your studies” action. 20 sunway university student handbook



    3.7 student portal and learning management system



    3.7.1 izone izone is the sunway university student portal through which students can manage their studies. izone allows students to enrol for subjects each semester and to obtain your exam results each semester. you may access izone at https://izone.sunway.edu.my/



    3.7.2 elearn elearn is a web-based learning management system at sunway university. it is an integral part of your studies, as it used to obtain up-to-date and relevant information on the following: • class timetable • lecturer’s timetable • subject syllabus • lesson plan and lecture notes • assignment details you may access elearn at https://elearn.sunway.edu.my/



    3.7.3 imail imail is the sunway university student email. all registered students at sunway university are issued an official imail account. the use of imail accounts is one of the official communication channels between university and students. you may access the imail at http://www.imail.sunway.edu.my/ valid student login credentials are required in order to access elearn and izone and imail. contact your programme coordinator or it services staff if you face problems with access.



    3.8 programme delivery the university reserves the right to vary programme content as well as the locations and modes of academic delivery in case of force majeure. 21 section 3



    3.9 timetables timetables are posted on elearn. additional information, such as allocation of students to groups for tutorials and laboratory purposes will also be posted from time to time. in addition, please check the online notice boards regularly, and make sure you are aware of your timetable commitments, and that you attend at the proper time.



    3.10 subject selection one or more staff members at the school or academic department of the programme enrolled will be appointed to give advice on programme requirements, subject selection and other academic matters. you may contact any of the following staff: • head of department (hod) • programme leader • school/centre/department manager • programme coordinator



    3.11 credit exemption students with recognised diploma qualifications are eligible to apply for credit exemption. students may also seek credit exemption and/ or credit transfer for subjects completed during a student exchange programme, study abroad programme, or prior incomplete/completed studies at bachelor’s level. students are required to complete and submit the credit exemption/transfer form to the registry, along with certified true copies of their official examination results/transcripts and certificates of his/her academic achievements to the school/centre. the syllabi for subjects taken in prior studies may be required for evaluation of equivalency to the subjects in the programme enrolled at sunway university. the school/centre has the authority to grant or reject any transfer of credits and exemption from subjects in the new programme. 22 sunway university student handbook



    3.12 subject enrolment and pre-enrolment



    3.12.1 subject enrolment you are required to enrol for the subjects in each semester in order to complete your study. to do this, you may be asked to select and enrol for subjects for the new or following semester within the designated enrolment period. information regarding the method and specific dates of enrolment will be given by the school or academic department. it is your responsibility to ensure that your enrolment is correct and submit formal request for the change in enrolment if necessary. you should seek advice from your school/centre prior to submitting such request. if you fail to enrol or submit formal requests within this period, you may be subjected to the following: i. liable for the payment of fees in the semester ii. a fail grade will be recorded in each subject of the semester iii. a prolonged period of your total study period



    3.12.2 changes to subject enrolments students shall be permitted to change subject enrolments within the first two (2) weeks of a long semester (14 weeks), or one (1) week of a short semester (7 weeks), which is known as the subject add/drop period. students are not permitted to register for additional subjects after the subject add/drop period. tuition fees will not be refunded for subjects withdrawn after the subject add/drop period.



    3.12.3 subject withdrawal the last date for subject withdrawal is by end of week ten (10) for a long semester and by end of week five (5) for a short semester. subject withdrawal is only permitted if the student satisfies the following conditions: i. the student’s minimum academic load as full-time or part-time student is met after the withdrawal ii. only 1 withdrawal is allowed for every academic year (applicable only to adtp) iii. subjects withdrawn after the subject add/drop period will appear in the academic transcript with the notation ‘w’. 23 section 3



    3.13 mohe compulsory general studies subjects (mpu) the general studies subjects, are to be taken by all malaysian and international students of certificate, diploma, advanced diploma and degree. it is aimed at providing students with a holistic education and opportunities to engage in diverse life-long learning skills while acquiring valuable knowledge. the general studies comprises of four main categories, which include the following: • mpu u1 : appreciation of philosophy, values and history • mpu u2 : mastery of soft skills • mpu u3 : broadening of knowledge in malaysia • mpu u4 : practical management of community projects in addition to the above, malaysian students who do not have a ‘credit’ in bahasa melayu from sijil pelajaran malaysia (spm) is required to undertake bahasa kebangsaan (a). exemptions: • malaysian students can be exempted from taking the bahasa kebangsaan (a) subject if you have obtained a grade of credit or better in your sijil pelajaran malaysia (spm) bahasa malaysia paper. if eligible, you are required to apply for the exemption using the exemption application form and submit a certified copy of your spm result slip/certificate. • foundation and postgraduate students are exempted from taking the mohe compulsory general studies subjects (mpu). 24 sunway university student handbook



    3.14 attendance the university has a duty of care to its students and to ensure that each student makes the most of their learning opportunities while studying at the university. all students are expected to attend all teaching sessions on the timetable. students are responsible for ensuring their attendance is rightly recorded via the mechanism provided by the schools. unsatisfactory attendance report (uar) will be issued to students who do not meet the minimum attendance of 80%. “students are it is the student’s responsibility to inform the responsible for lecturer/programme leader/coordinator of his/ her absence. the student may be required to ensuring their disclose the reasons for absence. in cases where attendance is rightly absence was due to special circumstances (e.g. recorded via the illness or family bereavement), students are mechanism provided expected to inform the school as soon as possible by the schools.” so that the absence records can be updated. failing to meet the minimum attendance requirements without notification (and after all efforts made by the university to locate the students) will result in automatic deferment of the studies. if the student require time away from studies, please discuss this with the programme leader or head of department. if he/she feel that an unauthorised absence has been mistakenly recorded, he/she should inform the programme leader/coordinator or designated administrative staff as soon as possible. the school will monitor student attendance as below: • during lectures, tutorials and workshops (for conventional taught programmes) • via the formal assessments (for odl taught programmes) • during mentor / supervised meetings (for postgraduate research programmes) for international students, please refer to item 6.3 of this handbook on attendance requirement for international students. 25 section 4 administrative matters and procedures



    4.1 sources of administration information for advice on academic concerns, contact your school/centre manager or head of department. you may also refer to your programme handbook for information about managing your studies. where to obtain information and help about managing your studies? enrolment, programmes, subject prerequisites, your school / centre exemptions, timetables admission, programme requirements, admissions office programme fees student records, examinations (transcripts, registry certificates), graduation financial services fees, refunds visa application, student pass renewals, international office (io) immigration requirement sunway residence management residence booking, charges



    4.2 programme handbooks the programme handbooks are produced annually by the respective academic departments. these documents contain information on the programmes and subjects/units/modules offered to students in the academic year. the programme handbook is available in the learning management system, elearn. 26 sunway university student handbook



    4.3 student identification you will be issued a student identification card, which contains your photograph, name and a unique student identification number. your card identifies you as a registered student of sunway university and enables you to access common services and other services related to the programme enrolled. your student identification card remains the property of sunway university and is not transferable. you must carry your card at all times while in campus. you should take reasonable care to protect your student identification card. it should not be given to anyone else for use. misuse of a student identification card may constitute misconduct. loss of student the replacement for a lost card will incur a fee of rm47 identification unless there is a police report. you should contact the card registry for instructions on replacing a lost card. the expiry date shown on your student identification card is calculated based on the duration of your programme. if you need to extend the expiry date, the registry will expired cards produce a new card with the extended expiry date (without any charges) upon the return of your existing student identification card.



    4.4 correspondence information update it is your responsibility to ensure that information related to you kept by the university is up-to-date and formally notify the registry of any changes – especially change of contact numbers and addresses. all hardcopies of correspondence will be sent to the correspondence address recorded in the university computer system for student records. you can update your permanent address, residence address and other contact details by editing them directly in your ‘my profile’ page of izone (https://izone.sunway.edu.my/login). request for such changes via the telephone will not be accepted. 27 section 4



    4.5 formal document request a confirmation of student status letter is a formal document to certify your studies, registration with the university, enrolment details or completion of study, etc. a letter may be required by a third party such as government agencies, sponsors, private organisations or employers. students can also request for the the current list of formal documents/ letters through izone. all requests letters available is given below: for documents/letters must be • certificate of student status formally submitted by the student. • epf withdrawal letter a fee may be charged for the • enrolment notification issuance of each document. the confirmation issuance of a document/letter may • letter of offer take within 3 to 10 working days • academic transcript/progress depending on the necessity for report internal verification of your record.



    4.6 deferment or leave of absence if you wish to take a break in your studies, you must apply for deferment (or more commonly referred to as a ‘leave of absence’). in order to do this, you must first complete a student status modification form and submit it to the registry (for local students) or international office (for international students). a deferment is normally granted for 1 semester period. you are allowed a maximum of 2 deferments or a total deferment period of not more than 1 calendar year in your programme of study. it is your responsibility to be aware of the designated enrolment timeframe before applying for deferment in order to avoid paying any penalties. during the deferment period, you are considered a registered student of the university. you will be notified of the date to return to your programme of study and expected to report yourself for classes within the designated timeframe. deferment for students with ptptn loan: students with ptptn loan who wished to defer their studies are advised to seek clarification from ptptn before applying for a deferment because it may affect their loan agreement with ptptn and/ or disqualify them from applying for a loan waiver from ptptn should they manage to secure a first class honours degree upon completion of their studies. 28 sunway university student handbook



    4.7 transfer request (programme/intake/ study mode) the criteria for registered students to be eligible to apply for transfers are that they must meet the following requirements: • not on financial hold. • fulfil the minimum requirements for admission into the new programme. • obtain approvals from hod or school/centre manager of the programme(s) involved for the release and acceptance of registrations. it is recommended that you seek advice from the hod or school/ centre manager before applying for a transfer.



    4.8 financial hold status students will be put under financial hold status if they have outstanding payment(s) with th university. with this status activated, students will not be permitted to attend classes and access to the university facilities – such as the library, computer services, science labs, residence, etc will be barred; unless clearance of the debts is made. you should avoid risking yourself from the financial hold status by making sure that you pay all fees applicable in your programme of study (including residence and other resource fees) at the start of each semester or by the designated timeframe.



    4.9 appeals appeals should be submitted to the respective personnel as listed below. head of academic matters: admissions, enrolments, department progression, and appeals against examination results. financial services fees matters: fees payment, forfeiture of fees, etc. manager group registrar disciplinary matters 29 section 4



    4.10 official withdrawal when discontinuing a programme, you must be aware of the relevant dates for refund/transfer of fees paid to avoid penalties. enrolment and general fees are non-refundable whereas the proportion of tuition fee refund, upon official withdrawal, is shown below: • 75% refund (by the 5th working day from the commencement of semester) • 50% refund (by the 6th–8th working day from the commencement of semester) • no refund (after the 8th working day from the commencement of semester) if you wish to fully discontinue from your programme, you must consult/notify your hod or programme coordinator and complete a student status modification form and submit it to the registry (for local students) or international office (for international students).



    4.11 programme completion at the end of your programme, you should complete the student status modification form and submit it to the registry (for local students) or international office (for international students) if you do not wish to further your study at the university. this is to officially end your registration as a student at the university and also to formally request for the refund of deposits paid for your study. you should be aware of the period allowed for request of refund of deposits to avoid forfeiture of funds.



    4.12 certificate and endorsement the university will provide appropriate certificates for all students who have successfully completed an academic programme. endorsement or acceptance of certificates are subject to third parties’ discretion. 30 sunway university student handbook section 5 examination and assessment



    5.1 examination arrangements an examination is defined as a formal, timed assessment of any duration that is subject to continuous invigilation. the university operates a strict code of conduct (appendix a) in relation to the behaviour of examination candidates. a copy is made available to all examination candidates. it is the responsibility of the student to attend examinations in accordance with the published schedule. a student who fail to attend an examination will be awarded zero mark, unless mitigating circumstances are accepted. the university may require students to register for examinations and reserves the right to make a charge for this. examination scripts are not generally returned to students. “it is the responsibility of the



    5.2 absence from examination students are expected to be present for all tests and student to attend examinations at the time and place announced. if a examinations in student is absent without valid reason (mitigating accordance with the circumstances) supported by documentary published schedule. evidence, mark of zero will be awarded. absence due to medical or extenuating circumstances will only be accepted if the student presents evidence within three working days to support his/her claim (such as a medical certificate issued by a doctor). self-certification without a doctor’s confirmation will not be accepted. 31 section 5



    5.3 academic malpractice



    5.3.1 cheating in examinations and coursework students’ attention is drawn to the fact that cheating in examination and coursework is a serious academic offence that may constitute grounds for exclusion. students are reminded of the regulations, which includes cheating as: • communicating with or copying from any other student during an examination; • communicating during an examination with any person other than a properly authorised invigilator; • introducing unauthorised written, printed or “students’ attention electronically stored material into an examination is drawn to the fact room; that cheating in • gaining access to any unauthorised material examination and relating to an examination during or before the specified time coursework is a serious academic offence that may constitute



    5.3.2 plagiarism grounds for exclusion.” plagiarism involves the unacknowledged use of someone else’s work, usually in coursework, and passing it off as if it were his/her own. this category of cheating includes the following: • verbatim copying or insertion of another person’s work (published or unpublished and including material • freely available in electronic form) without appropriate acknowledgement; • the deliberate and detailed presentation of another person’s concept as one’s own; • unacknowledged quotation of phrases from another person’s work please note that “turnitin” is a software to detect plagiarism and the university reserves the right to use this software on all submitted assignments. other forms of dishonest practice not falling within the above definitions may also amount to malpractice. 32 sunway university student handbook



    5.3.3 warning concerning copyright restrictions duplication, in any form, including digitally, of materials with copyright is strictly prohibited under the copyright act 1987, as amended and supplemented from time to time. the copyright act 1987 governs the protection of copyrighted works in malaysia. copyright works refer to lecture notes, slides and reading materials, as well as other literary, musical or artistic works (which includes books, plays, photographs, sculptures, paintings, computer programs) and films, sound recordings or broadcasts. any unauthorised reproductions, sale or hire, distribution and public exhibition by way of trade, constitutes infringement of copyright. any breach of the copyright act 1987 is a punishable offence by the enforcement authorities. students who violate the copyright act 1987 can be penalised by the university in accordance to the disciplinary procedures for students outlined in the student code of conduct. for more information, please refer to the official portal of intellectual property corporation of malaysia (myipo) at https://www.myipo.gov.my/en/home/ details of the procedures involved in cases of academic malpractice can be found in appendix b. further details can be found in the university academic malpractice policy and procedures documents available in the izone.



    5.4 appeal against university decision a student who is dissatisfied with the result of an examination or other decision by the assessment board on the grounds listed in appendix d may submit a formal application of appeal to the school. the appeal must be made within fifteen (15) working days of the release of result or receipt of notification on the assessment board’s decision. appeals received outside the stated timescales, without good reason, will be ruled invalid. the procedures for making an appeal against the university’s decision can be found in appendix d. students are required to refer to the university policy and procedures documents available in the izone for further details on the appeal. 33 section 6 international students



    6.1 international student support specialised support and services are available at the international office. the international office is located within the student centre at level g (ground), north building, next to the cafeteria.trained staff are available to aid, advice and support which include: • application for admission procedures • airport pickup • accommodation arrangement • student pass (application, renewal, cancellation and queries) • insurance (hospitalization and outpatient) international students are strongly reminded to check the expiry dates of their student passes. it is their responsibility to update the international office of their student pass status at all times. if you are a student transferring from another institution within malaysia into sunway university, you must make a new student pass application to study at the university as you may otherwise face the risk of being deported midway through your studies. 34 sunway university student handbook



    6.2 student pass the policies and regulations governing student passes are imposed by the malaysian immigration department and they are applicable to all international students studying in malaysia. these rules and regulations must be adhered to. all international students are required to: possess a valid student pass while studying in malaysia. new international students are required to complete the mandatory post- arrival medical screening to obtain the student pass endorsement. ensure that their student passes are submitted to the international office for extension (renewal) 3 months prior to the date of expiry. inform the international office before making plans related to their stay in malaysia, such as change in pass status, change in contacts/addresses, returning home for holidays, application for deferment/transfer/ withdrawal, industrial training/internship, etc. report to the international office upon completion of studies/ graduation and provide a copy of their flight ticket and passport to cancel their student visa. they are also required to complete the student status modification form and submit it to their respective programme administrator for approval and also to process the refund of deposit. adhere to all other procedures and regulations imposed by relevant authorities. 35 section 6



    6.3 attendance all international students are required to adhere to the policy of the immigration department of malaysia, and to meet a minimum of 80% of attendance and achieve a cumulative gpa of at least 2.00 and higher, for the renewal or extension of the student visa. the university is obliged by malaysian law to inform the immigration department when an international student is absent for three consecutive classes in a semester without a valid reason. “the university is obliged non-compliance to the attendance requirement by malaysian law to (including absence for three (3) or more consecutive classes without valid supporting inform the immigration documents) will result in: department when an • notification to the police, ministry of higher international student education malaysia, education malaysia is absent for three global services (emgs) and immigration consecutive classes in a department of malaysia; and/or semester without a valid • cancellation / non-renewal of his/he student pass resulting in his/her course reason.” discontinuation any student who plans to be absent from university with valid reason at any point during his/her studies, must inform the programme leader or head of department in advance of the absence, and to ensure that his/her contact information is up-to-date. (please refer to the international office student handbook)



    6.3 health insurance requirement while you are in malaysia, you must be covered with a student health insurance policy. this is a condition for your student pass for the duration of your stay. it is the responsibility of the student to remain enrolled in order for the policy to be renewed annually. please contact the international office for further information. 36 sunway university student handbook



    6.4 important reminders if you are holding an international student pass studying at sunway university, you must be aware and observe the following: • your enrolment will be invalidated if you fail to complete the enrolment process properly and / or not reporting for classes. you will be required to return to your home country immediately. • if you choose to defer your studies, you are required to inform the international office and provide supporting documents for your application for deferment (leave of absence). apart from the approval from your hod or school/centre manager, you also required to obtain approval from the international office by submitting the student status modification form once your deferment is approved, you are required to return to your home country. deferment without proper approval may result in a breach of the student pass conditions. the international office will proceed with making a police report on your absence from classes. • if you choose to discontinue your studies, you are required to inform the international office and you will be advised on the procedures and documentation required. • if you are transferring to another institution within malaysia, you are required to obtain an official offer letter from the new institution and inform the international office. the international office will then advise you on the procedures and documentation required. international office contacts hotline (airport pickup, welfare issues and emergencies): +6019 336 2242 37 section 7 student support



    7.1 student life the aim of student life is to provide a supportive, friendly and stimulating environment outside the classroom, to aid academic success as well as individual development. the respective units under student life provides the following services: counselling and wellness • provides professional and confidential counselling by experienced and trained therapists on matters relating to academic, or social and personal issues such as emotional difficulties, relationship, self-development or family problems and cultural issues. e-mail: counselling@sunway.edu.my sunway career services • provides comprehensive employment guide and career services to students, graduates and employers. • organises employment related events and training involving students and employers. • provides information relating to career planning, job selection and employment advice. e-mail: careerservices@sunway.edu.my 38 sunway university student handbook alumni relations • promotes and foster effective relationships between graduates and the university via various networking and developmental programmes. • alumni can contribute back to the institution via mentoring or speaking engagements. e-mail: alumni@sunway.edu.my scholarship • provides information on scholarship and awards available at sunway university. e-mail: scholarship@sunway.edu.my sports • provides information regarding sports facilities, sports clubs and tournaments e-mail: sports@sunway.edu.my 39 section 7 student leadership & engagement • provides avenues for students to tap into their full potential via leadership opportunities, creative thinking projects and community service. • facilitates student-run councils, clubs and societies by providing administrative support and advisory role for student activities. e-mail: sle@sunway.edu.my sunway cultural exchange • organises inbound and outbound programmes for students to participate in • provides opportunities for students to serve as hosts to international visiting students • provides avenues for international students to build a community and sense of belonging in sunway and malaysia e-mail: culturalexchange@sunway.edu.my student welfare • provide disability services in understanding an individual’s condition to access support services. • aid and advice in handling situation like bullying and harassment, victim of crime, conflict with peers, etc. e-mail: welfare@sunway.edu.my 40 sunway university student handbook



    7.2 university placement services this is the centre where students can make enquiries on university placement matters. brochures are available for your research on universities and programmes. presentations by various visiting universities, education fairs and other useful information will be disseminated through your programme notice boards throughout the year. you can make appointments with counsellors to seek advice on matters related to your further studies pathway and application to universities of your choice. contact +603 7491 8622 or email to placement@sunway.edu.my for more information.



    7.3 centre for english language studies the centre for english language studies offers programmes to students who need help developing english language skills. english language test: you may be requested to sit for a language proficiency test at the beginning of your programme. upon receiving your test results, you may be required to undertake an english language programme before commencing your study in the programme enrolled earlier. this depends on your score in the test. further enquiries can be directed to staff at the centre for english language studies, level 3, north building.



    7.4 malaysian government loan and sponsorship bodies



    7.4.1 perbadanan tabung pendidikan tinggi nasional loan (ptptn) the ptptn education loan scheme was created for the purpose of providing educational loans to students studying at local higher education institutions. malaysian student who registered as a fulltime student in a programme approved by the ministry of higher education and registered with ptptn may apply for the loan. for further information, kindly refer to https://www.ptptn.gov.my/ or contact us at financialaidgclu@sunway.edu.my.



    7.4.2 other sponsorship bodies all queries should be directed to puan norlela abdul rahman at norlelaar@sunway. edu.my for more information. 41 section 8 facilities and services sunway university endeavours to promote equal opportunity for all students and provide an environment free of unfair discrimination on grounds of gender, ethnicity, nationality, disability, marital status, occupation, sexual orientation, religion or belief, age or any other irrelevant distinction. as a registered full- time student of sunway university, you are eligible to gain access to the campus facilities. the campus facilities include the it services, the library, sports facilities and other common areas in the student centre. selected facilities may be assigned to you in accordance to the programme and/or subject you enrolled. such facilities include science laboratories, language laboratory, specialised computer laboratories, campus accommodation, etc. additional fees are applicable for the use of these facilities and the fees can be paid as part of the programme fees or as a separate charge. 42 sunway university student handbook



    8.1 tun hussein onn sunway library the tun hussein onn sunway library constitutes 3 floors, with a total floor area of 72,000 sq ft and provides 1,244 seats. the library offers a range of teaching and learning facilities, including individual and group study, silent zone, group project pods, training rooms, computer areas, viewing zone, collaborative zones, instructional lab and an extended hour study area which is open after the library closes. the resource-rich library is equipped with print, audio- visual and e-resource collections. users can access e-resources within the campus and remotely from anywhere in the world through their computers or mobile devices. the library’s website (https://library. sunway.edu.my) provides links to information about the library’s collection, facilities and services. 43 section 8



    8.2 computing and it services



    8.2.1 it learning labs sunway campus has two main it learning labs to support teaching and learning. each has multiple labs of pcs and macs with a comprehensive range of software. labs are accessible during: level 1, south west • 8:00am - 7:00pm, monday to friday of sunway college • 8:30am - 1:00pm, saturday building • closed on sunday and public holiday west wing of sunway • 8.00am to 5.30pm, monday to friday university building • closed on saturday, sunday and public holiday



    8.2.2 it helpdesk counters information technology services (its) operates helpdesks to assist students in making effective use of the it resources. to get support for any computer-related matters, head over to any of the helpdesk located at the it learning labs, or choose any of the following options: • email : helpdesk@sunway.edu.my • telephone : 03-2022 5898, press “2” for student support



    8.2.3 student access accounts and wifi all registered students are given their own student id & single login password that enables them to access the campus’ computing facilities. this includes internet access, wifi access, and systems like elearn and izone portal. student accounts also give access to facilities like scanning, photocopying and printing. wifi internet access is available in all common and public areas of the campus. 44 sunway university student handbook



    8.2.4 the vine, izone, elearn and imail the vine, izone and elearn are web applications specially designed for all students to facilitate their online learning experience. the vine is an intranet that allows you to read latest announcements and happenings in the university. you must use a computer within the campus network to access the vine at https://vine.sunway.edu.my. izone is a student portal system that can be accessed from outside the campus via https://izone.sunway.edu.my. depending on the programme enrolled, you may use izone for all (or selected) functions listed below: • download handbooks and official forms • enrol subject(s) in a semester • view your enrolment history, progress report or semester results and statements elearn is the campus learning management system that enable collaboration between lecturers and students in their learning process. it facilitates the teaching and learning virtually via the internet. all students are issued with an imail email account. this is the official method by which sunway will communicate with students on a range of administrative and academic matters. when corresponding with sunway via email, students must use their imail email account. using the imail email account helps to ensure students identity and validity of the communication.



    8.3 bring your own device (byod) policy the bring your own device (byod) policy refers to students being required to bring and use an appropriate digital device to connect, access, use or participate in the learning platforms and software to support and enrich their studies. it allows students to access a broad range of course related applications and access vlab at https://vlab.sunway.edu.my using their personal devices in the classroom or anywhere in the campus. effective 1 jan 2024, all students required to bring their own device (byod) when they come on-campus for classes, academic sessions and online examinations, or as required by their academic leaders. further information is available at http://izone.sunway.edu.my/faq 45 section 8



    8.4 science and specialised laboratories there are several other laboratories available within the campus which are mainly used for teaching purposes. these laboratories are: science labs they are used mainly by the pre-university programmes for science related subjects such as biology, chemistry and physics; located at level lg (lower ground), south building and level lg (lower ground), north building. science labs multimedia production lab this lab houses a sound recording studio for the production of media contents; located at level lg (lower ground), south building. english language lab the lab is used for teaching english language programmes. the lab is located at level 2, south building. lab safety: if you are studying in a programme which requires sessions in the laboratories, your safety and that of your fellow students and staff is of primary concern. your academic department will provide specific rules and regulations of the laboratories including the safe handling of materials. you are strongly advised to take utmost care while handling specialised equipment and inflammable or poisonous materials. take no risks. refer to a member of staff immediately when necessary. 46 sunway university student handbook



    8.5 safety and health all staff and students of the university are expected to comply with the health and safety arrangements within the campus. it is the duty of all staff and students whilst within the university, be familiar with the emergency instructions, telephone locations, emergency exits, assembly points, fire alarm call points, fire extinguishers and first aid boxes in study or work areas: take reasonable care to maintain the health and safety of themselves and others who may be affected by the way in which they carry out their work cooperate with all staff and students to enable them to carry out health and safety duties report to supervisory staff any situation, working practice or procedures which may be dangerous or hazardous report incidents to supervisory staff handle all equipment or materials with care comply to health and safety instructions follow the health and safety instructions given by the health and safety department 47 section 8



    8.5.1 fire emergency in a fire emergency, please do the following: 1 do not panic; walk rapidly to the nearest exit 2 close all doors and windows if you are in a room 3 raise the alarm immediately by breaking nearest fire alarm break glass 4 dial 8112 or +037491 8777 and give details of your location to the security officer 5 leave the building and assemble at the nearest assembly point important fire precaution notice: • do not stop to collect your belongings or use the lift. • do not re-enter the building until it is declared safe to enter.



    8.5.2 accident and incident reporting all accidents involving injury of staff, students and visitors within the campus must be reported to the health and safety department or the security department as soon as possible. for accidents that involve serious injury (e.g. major fracture, head injuries, etc.) the victim shall be taken to sunway medical centre.



    8.5.3 lightning warning for your safety and well-being please take note of the strobe lights and warning alarm when using the field. should the alarm ring and the strobe lights flash when you are on the field, you are required to cease all outdoor activities, evacuate the field and move indoors. you may resume your outdoor activities once the strobe lights stop flashing and any danger of lightning has passed. 48 sunway university student handbook



    8.5.4 disability services sunway strives towards promoting access and equity for all students and staff, which also caters for those who are physically disabled or with long-term medical conditions. some facilities in the campus building are friendly to all students and staff, such as access ramps, lifts, toilets for the disabled, etc. there are also designated parking lots on campus that can be reserved on a request basis. however, enquiries regarding disability support services can be made at the health and safety office.



    8.5.5 evacuation plan the assembly points of sunway campus are stated as below. evacuation assemby area staff to assemble at the designated assembly area and according to the specified office level sequence emergency contact contact no. health and safety office 03-7491 8678 (ext 8520) nightingale bay (nurse) 03-7491 8670 (ext 8522) vine > support service > health & safety department > emergency response plan > emergency assembly point 49 section 8



    8.5.6 location of health and safety office & nightingale bay the health and safety office is located at sw building, ground floor



    8.6 campus security service the campus security service operates around the clock – 24 hours a day, seven days a week. in the event of an emergency, contact the following emergency numbers: • internal phone: dial 8112 • external phone or mobile: +603 7491 8777 personal security: the university encourages a cooperative approach by students, staff and the campus security officers by working together to create a safe campus environment. recognise and avoid situations of potential risk: you are strongly advised to take charge of your personal security within the campus and as well as outside campus, in order to reduce the opportunities for crime. 50 sunway university student handbook



    8.7 sports facilities the university recognises the importance for staff and students to maintain a balance in their work and studies with leisure. you may contact staff at the student life centre regarding sport clubs and facilities available. indoor and outdoor game facilities available on-campus includes: • fifa certified football turf field • sungym • basketball/volleyball courts • tennis court netball/dodgeball/handball court • badminton courts • olympic-sized swimming pool • table tennis tables • dance studio • jogging track for information on sports tournaments and facilities, please come to the student life centre or email sports@sunway.edu.my. 51 section 8



    8.8 accommodation the sunway house student residences management manages the on-campus accommodation. priority is given to full-time outstation and international students, and places are allocated on a first-come-first-serve basis. all rooms in the residence are equipped with a set of basic furniture such as bed, study table and chair, book shelf and wardrobe. each residence unit has a dining table and chairs, sofas, shower heaters, pantry and refrigerator. cooking is not allowed in the residence unit. meals can be taken at the residence café, the campus cafeteria or nearby stalls/restaurants which are located within a short walking distance from the campus. facilities provided within the on-campus accommodation include café, convenience store, internet access, laundry services, sports amenities, study rooms, prayer rooms (surau), etc. for further information on sunway house student residences, you may visit their website at residence.sunwayhouse.com.my or email your enquiries to enquiry_residence@sunway.edu.my. 52 sunway university student handbook



    8.9 bookshop the bookshop is located at level g (ground) next to the cafeteria and is open monday to friday from 8.30am to 5.30pm, and saturday from 9.00am to 1.00pm. besides selling text books and magazines, the bookshop offers a range of snacks, stationeries and gift items.



    8.10 public transportation the university campus is located within the sunway metropolitan area and can be accessed via several public transport systems. elevated bus rapid transit: the current 5.4km brt connects seven stations including sunway-setia jaya, mentari, sun-med, sunu- monash, south quay and usj7, offer fast, cost effective and integrated transport solution, in areas which are densely populated and in need of a reliable public transportation system. sunway shuttle bus: travelling within the sunway resort city is a breeze as there is also the option of hopping on to the free of charge shuttle buses provided by sunway. this service is popular among other nearby institutions’ students too. taxis or e-hailing rides: taxis or e-hailing rides can be booked or hailed from the roadside. you may easily get a taxi near the university entrance and at the taxi stop outside the sun-u residence (on-campus accommodation). trains: the nearest station is the subang train station located approximately 6km from the university campus. the station is serviced by trains going to/from kuala lumpur connecting to other major cities in malaysia. others: smart selangor bus, lrt, ktm 53 section 9 other services sunway originals: the shop located next to student life, sells the university signature products ranging neck ties, scarves, mugs, pens, t-shirts, key chains, planners, interesting pewter items and more. the opening hours are from 11.00 am to 3.00 pm, mondays to fridays. for more information, please email sunwayoriginals@sunway.edu.my. sunway travel: all students and staff can use the facilities provided by this travel agency, which include schedule enquiries, booking of air tickets, purchasing travel insurances, hotel accommodation and package tours. telephone +603 5639 9030 or email them at travelinfo@sunway.com.my banks and atm machines: there are several atm machines available within the university campus. they are located at level g (ground), south building (behind the security office) and level ug (upper ground), new university building. the banks operating the atm machines are maybank and cimb bank. international students may obtain a letter from the international office to open a bank account with the respective bank. surau: prayer rooms are available in the campus buildings for muslim staff and students. these rooms are located at level 1, north building, level 3, south building and level m (mezzanine), university building. vending machines: numerous vending machines are available in the campus buildings as well as in the on- campus accommodation residences. these machines offer a wide range of snacks and beverages. locker rental: lockers are available for rent. they are located within the campus buildings. you can enquire about the service and charges at the student life centre or email studentsupport@sunway.edu.my. 54 sunway university student handbook section 10 lifestyle and outside campus



    10.1 carpooling if you drive to the university, you should consider having a car pool. carpooling involves sharing your vehicle with others or joining others in their vehicle. this will help you save money on petrol and parking, reduces traffic congestion on the roads which is good for the environment.



    10.2 sunway pyramid shopping mall bowling/cafes/gym/food or beverage outlets/restaurants/ retail shops: it is highly recommended that you shop at the sunway pyramid shopping mall as you will get almost everything you need under one roof. the mall opens daily from 10.00am to 10.00pm, seven days a week. 55 section 10 cinemas: the cinemas in sunway pyramid shopping mall offer the latest movie titles in the country. show your student id card to purchase movie tickets at discounted prices! post office: the nearest post office can be found in the sunway pyramid shopping mall. this post office offers a wide range of postal services such as registered post, domestic and international postal service, payment of bills, etc. the post office is open 9.00am to 5.00pm, monday to friday. hypermarket: you may shop for your groceries at the hypermarket in the sunway pyramid shopping mall and enjoy reasonable prices for all the items you need. canopy walk: sunway pyramid is accessible by the canopy walk from the 1st floor, east building. the ‘canopy walk’ connects sunway university to sunway pyramid (completed in november 2010, 360m, about 8-minute walk) and sunway university to monash university malaysia (completed in september 2012). the canopy walk is safe walk with 24- hour auxiliary police patrol and a total of 35 cctvs. address: sunway pyramid shopping mall, no 3 jalan pjs 11/15, bandar sunway, 46150 petaling jaya, selangor darul ehsan, malaysia. telephone: +603 7492 9998 fax: +603 7492 6333 website: https://www.sunwaypyramid.com/ 56 sunway university student handbook



    10.3 sunway lagoon theme park sunway lagoon theme park has over 90 attractions spread across 88 acres. it features rides and attractions on its water and dry parks. refer to their website for their operating hours. address: sunway lagoon, no 3 jalan pjs 11/11, bandar sunway, 47500 selangor darul ehsan, malaysia. telephone: +603 5639 0000 fax: +603 5639 0050 website: http://sunwaylagoon.com/



    10.4 sunway medical centre sunway medical centre is one of the most reputable private hospital in malaysia, offering a comprehensive range of health services and facilities including 24- hour emergency services. the hospital is along the same road as the sunway campus, and is about 1km away. address: sunway medical centre, no 5 jalan lagoon selatan, bandar sunway, 47500 selangor darul ehsan, malaysia. telephone: +603 7491 9191 fax: +603 7491 8181 website: http://sunwaymedical.com/ 57 section 10



    10.5 sunway futurex farm sunway futurex farm grows fresh, safe and nutritious produce in sunway city kuala lumpur’s sustainable smart farms. the innovation hub grows crops with the support of smart iot & precision farming tech, less resources & zero pesticides. sunway futurex farm’s mission is to grow planet-friendly produce around the country– fighting climate change, food wastage and nutrition lost through complex food travel processes. to that end, the farm takes in students as farm apprentices & coaches them hands-on on different sustainable farming methods; while educating the public via farm tours and workshops. futurex farm also performs r&d in partnership with sunway university to create innovative solutions for tackling local food security. address: duplex, jalan pjs11/26, bandar sunway, subang jaya, malaysia telephone: 011-5621 6538 e-mail: xfarms@sunway.com.my website: http://sunwayxfarms.com/ 58 sunway university student handbook 1o.6 42 kuala lumpur (42kl) 42kl is a revolutionary computer science school that is completely free. the programme utilises an innovative educational model of peer-to-peer learning, project-based learning, and gamification. pioneered in paris, 42 is a global education network that has over 50 campuses around the world. 42kl is a part of 42 malaysia, a nation-building initiative by sunway education group and khazanah nasional berhad. . address: sunway futurex, duplex, jalan pjs 11/26, bandar sunway, 47500 subang jaya, selangor e-mail: community@42kl.edu.my website: www.42kl.edu.my 59 appendix a: code of conduct in examinations failure to adhere to the following rules and regulations can result in a student being disqualified for the examination. 1. arrival time candidates will be allowed to enter the examination hall/room 10 minutes before commencement of the examination. candidates arriving after 30 minutes of commencement of the examination will not be allowed into the examination room. 2. general instructions candidates are required to observe any general instructions which may be given by the chief invigilator and to note carefully any instructions that appear on the front of the examination paper. 3. authorised materials no writing paper or manuscripts may be taken into the examination room, other than those specifically permitted. bags must be left at the designated storage area before a candidate approaches his or her assigned seat. headwear (such as caps or bandanas), pencil cases, electronic devices (such as smartphones, pdas, or ipods) and programmable calculators are not allowed. candidates are not allowed to borrow stationeries from another candidate. 4. communications in the examination room no communication between candidates is allowed as soon as the candidate enters the examination room until the candidate leaves the examination hall/ room. candidates wishing to communicate with the chief invigilator should raise their hand to attract attention. any candidate that leaves his or her seat without permission will be disqualified. 60 sunway university student handbook 5. permission to leave the examination room candidates are not allowed to leave the examination hall/room within the first 30 minutes and the last 15 minutes of the examination. candidates can only leave the examination room once (normally) to go to the toilet during the examination accompanied by an invigilator. 6. candidate behaviour smoking and eating are not permitted in the examination hall. 7. examination materials candidates are not permitted to remove examination materials from the examination room unless specified by the chief invigilator. all examination scripts remain the property of the examination unit. 8. candidate responsibilities candidates are required to adhere to the instructions for the conduct of the examination as set out in this document and any other instructions which may be issued to candidates through the chief invigilator. 61 appendix b: guidelines on academic malpractice 1. general



    1.1 malpractice may be broadly defined as an attempt to gain an advantage over other students by the use of unfair and unacceptable methods. common to all cases of malpractice is the attempt to affect by deceitful means an assessment of academic ability, standing or progress.



    1.2 the university shall have the right to investigate any allegation of academic malpractice against a student and may take disciplinary action where it decides, on the balance of probabilities, that an act of malpractice has been committed.



    1.3. the university has a zero-tolerance policy towards academic malpractice and treats lapses without leniency. to claim ignorance will not preclude the offender from the penalties accrued for having unintentionally committed academic malpractice. 2. types of malpractice



    2.1. cheating in examinations is an infringement of the rules governing conduct in examinations or other forms of time-constrained assessment. cheating includes the following: a. gaining access to any unauthorised material relating to an examination during or before the specified time; b. any form of communication with or copying from any other student or any other source during an examination, except in so far as the assessment criteria/ rubric may specifically permit; c. communicating during an examination with any person other than a properly authorised invigilator or another authorised member of staff; d. introducing any written, printed or electronically stored information into an examination room, unless expressly permitted by the assessment criteria/ 62 sunway university student handbook rubric for the examination; e. making use of electronic calculators and other portable electronic devices except as permitted under the rubric of the examination, and in the provision for students with additional assessment requirements; f. accessing or receiving information in an examination by electronic means, such as from a mobile phone; g. the placing of unauthorised items on the examination desk (including pencil cases, and mobile phones); h. the use of mobile telephones, or other communication devices during an assessment or examination; i. fabricating information in an examination, e.g. use of artificial citations; and/or j. impersonating another student, or procuring an impersonator.



    2.2. plagiarism consists of the unacknowledged use of someone else’s work and attempting to pass it off as one’s own. it includes the representation of work: written, visual, practical or otherwise, of any other person, including another student or anonymous web-based material, or any institution, as the candidate’s own. it may take the form of: a. the verbatim copying or insertion of another’s work without clear identification and acknowledgement - including the downloading of materials from the internet without proper referencing, published or unpublished and including work of another student; b. paraphrasing by, for instance, substituting a few words or phrases or altering the order of presentation of another person’s work, or linking unacknowledged sentences or phrases with words of one’s own; c. unacknowledged quotation of phrases from another person’s work; d. the deliberate and detailed presentation of another’s concept as one’s own; e. work that has been completed, altered, translated or corrected by another person, and is submitted as if it was the student’s work; f. work that has already been published in another language, and has been translated into english by the student themselves or by another person; g. direct facsimile of an image, a sound or a performance without due acknowledgement of its source; h. copying work that was originally completed and submitted by the student and resubmitted for another purpose, without acknowledgement of this, unless resubmission is allowed; 63 appendix b



    2.3. collusion occurs when there is conscious collaboration, without official approval, between two or more students in the preparation and production of work which is ultimately submitted by each in an identical or substantially similar form and/or is represented by each to be the product of his or her individual efforts. collusion includes: a. unauthorised collaboration with another student in the completion of work; b. submission as entirely his/her own work, work done in collaboration with another person, with the intention to gain an unfair advantage; c. knowingly permitting another student to copy all or part of one’s work which that student then submits as their own unaided work; d. falsely claims involvement in approved and assessed group work and colludes with that group in order to deceive the lecturer or tutor.



    2.4. fabrication or falsification fabrication of results occurs when a candidate falsely claims to have, for example, carried out tests, research or observations as part of his/her assessed work, or presents fabricated results with the object of gaining an advantage. fabrication may also include: a. falsifying data or material in the presentation of laboratory reports; fieldwork reports, projects, work-based learning, etc.; b. presentation of artificial references or other source material purporting to demonstrate a depth of reading or knowledge beyond that undertaken, e.g. embellishment of the bibliography; c. alterations and supplementing the data in order to misrepresent the results; d. falsifying evidence in support of applications, for example for mitigating circumstances or academic appeals.



    2.5. impersonation is the assumption by one person of the identity of another person with the intent to deceive or to gain an unfair advantage in the assessment process.



    2.6. breaches of confidentiality occur when a student does not follow confidentiality and/or anonymity protocols and includes: a. direct naming of an individual or organisation where protocols prohibit this; b. inclusion of documentation that links to privileged information; c. provision of information that could lead to the identification of individuals or organisations, e.g. dates of birth, hospital record numbers, addresses or reference to unusual 64 sunway university student handbook



    2.7. dishonest practice other forms of dishonest practice not falling within the above definitions may also amount to malpractice. this includes, but is not limited to: a. attempting to obtain special consideration by offering or receiving inducements or favours; b. making false declarations to deceive staff and/or to receive special consideration; c. procuring another person’s work or intentionally buying work from a website or other source; d. the submission of false claims of previously gained qualifications, research or experience in order to gain credit for prior learning; e. ensuring the non-availability of books, journal articles or other reference materials in the library by deliberately removing or mis-shelving them so that other students may not be able to find and use the materials. 3. student responsibility



    3.1. students have a responsibility to be aware of the policy and procedures regarding academic malpractice, to understand the seriousness of academic malpractice and to take every reasonable step to ensure that academic malpractice does not occur.



    3.2. it is the responsibility of the student to take reasonable precautions to guard against unauthorised access by others to his/her work, both before and after assessment. 4. initial handling of academic malpractice the initial procedures for handling academic malpractice vary with regard to types of academic malpractice, the level of studies, the severity of the infringement and whether there has been more than one infringement. an investigation of the incident of academic malpractice will follow after initial procedures.



    4.1. academic malpractice in examinations



    4.1.1. where an invigilator suspects that any form of cheating, as defined in an examination, the invigilator should: a. inform the students of her/his suspicions and the intention to report the incident; b. confiscate any relevant evidence (e.g. any unauthorised material) c. where possible, have steps (a) and (b) witnessed by another invigilator; d. annotate the student’s script and endorse the front cover at the point which 65 appendix b the alleged cheating occurred; e. return the script to the student and permit the student to continue with the examination and to conclude at the normal stipulated time of the examination.



    4.1.2. where the procedure outlined in 4.1.1 above leads to disturbance or disruption, or where the procedure is invoked against a student for a second time in an examination; the invigilator has the authority to expel the student from the examination. the invigilator must record the action taken in their report of the examination.



    4.1.3. no later than one (1) working day after the conclusion of the examination, the invigilator will submit the academic malpractice notification form and a report to the director of student administration and programme leader.



    4.1.4. the report from the invigilator should provide an account of malpractice (including the time of the incident and the student’s response to the allegation) and be accompanied by any relevant supporting evidence (including any confiscated materials). where possible, the report should include comments and signatures of other invigilators who were present at the time the alleged malpractice took place.



    4.1.5. thereafter, the academic malpractice investigation procedure will take place.



    4.2. academic malpractice investigation procedure



    4.2.1. upon receipt of the academic malpractice notification form, the programme leader will inform the student in writing of the allegation, enclosing the report, and providing a copy of this document so that the student understands the procedure to be followed in such cases. the student will be given five (5) working days from sending the written notice to respond to the allegation and will be informed that: a. if the student does not reply within the time stipulated it will be assumed that the student has admitted the malpractice. then the necessary procedures shall be conducted in a form commensurate with the nature of the malpractice. b. if the student wishes to contest the allegation, he/she must give written notice to that effect to the programme leader within five (5) working days from the date that the original notice was sent.



    4.2.2. the academic malpractice investigation procedures applied will be determined by whether the student has previously committed an academic offence. 66 sunway university student handbook



    4.3. naïve offence and first offence



    4.3.1. instances of first offences will be dealt with programme leaders who will establish whether a prima facie case exists. once a prima facie case is established the case is to be reported to hod and asq.



    4.3.2. hod will convene a panel of inquiry consisting of three members of academic staff. the panel should not include a member of staff involved in delivering or assessing the course(s) concerned. the student and programme leader will also be invited to attend the hearing. one academic staff member should be appointed as secretary for the panel.



    4.3.3. the panel will review the evidence and ask the student to present any information or reasons that may disprove the allegation. after considering the available information the panel may arrive at one of the following outcomes: a. case dismissed b. case upheld



    4.4. subsequent offences



    4.4.1. if the alleged academic malpractice is not a first offence the case will be referred to the provost’s office. the provost will convene a panel of inquiry of three members of academic staff who are not involved in delivering or assessing the course(s) concerned. the provost will appoint the panel chair and an administrative staff member to act as secretary for the panel. the student will be invited to the panel hearing and the panel may also invite the programme leader, subject leader, hod or any other person with knowledge relevant to the case.



    4.4.2. the panel will review the evidence and ask the student to present any information or reasons that may disprove the allegation. after considering the available information the panel may arrive at one of the following outcomes: a. case dismissed b. case upheld 67 appendix b



    4.5 procedures for handling academic malpractice offences are summarised in the table below: type of offence case dismissed case upheld naive and first 1. hod advises asq naive and minor offence offence and pl on the 1. any penalty or sanction is outcome. determined at department 2. pl informs the and school level in line with student, and asq the recommended tariffs set to strike the record out below. of an academic 2. hod informs students and malpractice asq of the outcome. allegation. major offence the case is referred with a recommended penalty and/ or sanction to the provost. the provost may confirm, amend or request the panel to recommend an alternative penalty or sanction. the provost’s office (po) informs the student, department, school and registry of the outcome. subsequent po informs student, minor and major offence offences and asq to strike 1. panel advises po of outcome record of an academic and recommends a penalty malpractice allegation and/or sanction to the provost. 2. the provost may confirm, amend or request the panel to recommend an alternative penalty or sanction. the po notifies the student, department, school and registry. note: if the sanction recommended by the panel results in dismissal or revocation of any award, the sanction may only be approved by the vice-chancellor. 68 sunway university student handbook



    4.6. conduct of the formal hearing



    4.6.1. the student against whom the allegation has been made will be invited to the formal hearing. he/ she has the right to be accompanied by a friend for support, but this person must be a member of the university community.



    4.6.2. a student’s failure to attend or to submit evidence to the panel will not prevent the panel from proceeding with its investigation. however, if the student is prevented from attending through ill health or other extenuating circumstances, the panel may decide to adjourn its proceedings until a later date agreed by the panel and the student.



    4.7. student appeal



    4.7.1. the student against whom an allegation of academic malpractice has been upheld may make an appeal in writing within five (5) working days of receiving notification of the outcome of the panel of inquiry hearing in accordance with sunway university student appeals policy and procedure.



    4.8. penalties for malpractice



    4.8.1. if a student is found to have committed malpractice in one or more assessments in a single assessment cycle, the panel of inquiry may: a. decide that no further action is required; b. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as a first attempt (mark not capped); c. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as a second attempt capped at the minimum pass mark; d. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as a final attempt capped at the minimum pass mark; e. recommend repeating the subject and with results capped at the minimum pass mark; f. deem the student to have failed in the specific element of assessment in which the malpractice occurred; g. deem the student to have failed in all the assessments for the subject; and h. make a recommendation about the student’s progression or the conferment of an award in the case where a student is found to have committed grave malpractice or to have infringed more than once. i. recommend suspension or expulsion from the programme and the university; j. make a recommendation for the degree or other award that is held by the 69 appendix b student to be revoked by the university.



    4.8.2. if academic malpractice is suspected in group work and if it cannot be established which individual(s) is/are responsible, the whole group will be deemed responsible, provided that there is sufficient evidence to substantiate the allegations on the balance of probability.



    4.8.3. if collusion is suspected and if after investigation it cannot be established which individual(s) is/are responsible, all students involved will be deemed responsible, provided there is sufficient evidence to substantiate the allegations on the balance of probability.



    4.8.4. the table below offers guidelines on the standard penalties for each type of offence. type of offence case dismissed case upheld naive 1. student to resubmit not applicable the whole assessment. 2. marks will not be capped at 40%. first offence 3. warning letter will 1. student will be awarded 0 be issued marks and is required to 4. student to resubmit repeat the subject. the whole 2. marks for the repeated assessment subject will be capped at 5. marks will be 40%. capped at 40% subsequent not applicable 1. student will be awarded 0 offence marks and is required to repeat the whole subject. 2. marks for the repeated subject will be capped at 40% 3. suspension of the following semester. note: further repeat of an academic malpractice may lead to expulsion. 70 sunway university student handbook appendix c: arrangements for the assessment of students with disabilities the university will make special arrangements where possible, to ensure fair assessment of students with disabilities or unforeseen medical circumstances. the following listing contains examples of modifications/ adjustments which may need to be made. 1. alternative locations for assessment • specific location agreed within a conventional examination room • adapted examination furniture/ special lighting provided • separate room for examinations • physical access to the location and to lavatory facilities suitable for the disabled 2. adjustments to the timing of assessment • extra time agreed • rest periods/ breaks agreed within a lengthy time-span. 3. use of specific equipment or software • use of pc/ laptop for examinations (with restrictions on what can be imported into the examination setting) • use of video/ tape recorder for oral answers 4. procedures for making special arrangements • students who need special arrangements are advised to discuss their requirements with the dean of school at the start of the semester and provide up-to-date documentary evidence to support their needs. • a written request is submitted to the examination unit with details of specific 71 appendix b arrangements and approved by the dean of school. • the request has to be submitted at least four weeks before any examination in order to enable the claim for special needs to be fully considered and arrangements made. students who have had additional arrangements in a previous year should renew the arrangements and indicate any necessary changes to previous requirements. • students should be aware that additional examination arrangements will be reported to the chair of the programme assessment board. exceptional arrangements will need to receive the approval of the chair of the board who may consult with the appropriate subject lecturers. students who require additional examination arrangements to be made in examinations as a result of unforeseen medical circumstances are required to follow the same process as outlined above, supported by appropriate medical certification. students are required to submit requests and medical certification as soon as possible following the accident/ illness/diagnosis in order to allow time for such provision to be made. 72 sunway university student handbook appendix d: guidelines on academic appeal 1 . policy sunway university is committed to giving its students the best experience possible. however, there may be occasions when students may feel that they have grounds to appeal against an academic decision or request for a formal review of a decision made by a sunway university academic body or officer. the student appeals policy provides a framework for the university to respond to appeals in a way that contributes to the university’s supportive and fair learning environment and is consistent with the principles of fairness and equal opportunity. the university expects students to appreciate that appeals will not always result in their preferred conclusion. regardless of the decision, students will be informed of the outcome of a formal appeal and the reasons for it.



    1.1. the university reserves the right to decline to pursue an appeal, including but not limited to circumstances where another process is more appropriate, or where the student does not have sufficient grounds to lodge an appeal.



    1.2. consideration of an appeal will be restricted to circumstances where: a. there has been or could have been an incorrect application of policies, procedures or administrative processes that may have disadvantaged the student; b. there is evidence of mitigating circumstances which may have affected the student’s performances of which the university was not aware when the decision was taken, and which could not reasonably have been presented to the university earlier; c. there is evidence that the decision made did not take any mitigating circumstances into sufficient account, or that the decision made is manifestly unreasonable; d. there is evidence of unfair or discriminatory practice; e. additional relevant evidence has come to light since the decision was taken which could not have been made available earlier. 73 appendix b



    1.3. the following matters do not constitute grounds for an appeal: a. disagreement with a mark or grade or a degree classification awarded; b. challenges to academic judgements of examiners on an assessment outcome or level of the award granted; c. claims that academic performance, including attendance, was adversely affected by mitigating circumstances, such as ill-health, but for which no contemporary medical or other appropriate evidence is provided; d. claims that academic performance, including attendance, was adversely affected by mitigating circumstances, which were not, but which could, reasonably, have been disclosed prior to the decision being made.1 e. complaints against delivery of teaching and methods of assessment. 2. general procedure



    2.1. an appeal may be made by completing and submitting the appropriate form for appeals electronically. independent documentary evidence or information which is relevant to the case must be included to support the appeals



    2.2. for rechecking of assessment marks, an appeal must be made to the examination unit, registry office by filling in the student appeals form: assessment result within fifteen (15) working days from the assessment result release date.



    2.3. for other academic matters, an appeal must be made to the school also within fifteen (15) working days of receiving notification from the school by filling in the student appeals form (academic matters).



    2.4. an application which does not satisfy the grounds for appeal as stipulated in the student appeals policy will be dismissed.



    2.5. there are various stages of the appeal process. a student must exhaust any lower level of appeal before proceeding to the next higher level. 3. procedure: stage 1 (appeal to the school)



    3.1. under stage 1, appeals shall be considered by the school appeals committee or another equivalent committee officially recognised by the university for the purposes of considering student appeals. the committee shall review the evidence provided by the student, and may in exceptional circumstances, and at its sole discretion, invite the student to present their case in person. 74 sunway university student handbook



    3.2. the school appeals committee may: (i) uphold the appeal or (ii) reject the appeal



    3.3. where the appeal is upheld, the committee shall recommend to the provost office such reasonable actions, but excluding any financial compensation, it deems appropriate to remedy the matter.



    3.4. the committee may defer any decision where it feels a further investigation is necessary to enable a reasonable judgment to be made. if the judgement is deferred, the chair of the committee shall initiate necessary investigations, and arrange of the committee to reconvene to re-consider the appeal.



    3.5. when the committee finds that there are valid circumstances for appeal but is unable to uphold the appeal since it requires the school to operate outside the boundaries of the university academic regulations, the committee shall refer the appeal to the stage 2.



    3.6. except where the appeal is referred to the stage 2, the judgement of the school appeals committee will be final. 4. procedure: stage 2 (appeals to the appeals and special case committee)



    4.1. under stage 2, appeals shall be considered by the appeals and special cases committee of the university (ascc), or other equivalent committee officially recognised by the university for the purposes of considering stage 2 appeals.



    4.2. the student shall be notified on the outcome of the ascc and any remedial steps to be taken. this includes the reasons why the appeal was rejected.



    4.3. the committee may defer any decision where it feels further investigation is necessary to enable reasonable judgment to be made. if judgement is deferred, the chair of the committee shall initiate necessary investigations, and arrange of the committee to reconvene to re-consider the appeal.



    4.4. the decision of ascc is final and there shall be no further rights of appeal. 1 mitigating circumstance are covered under the university mitigating circumstances policy, which can be found on the asq pages of the vine and on elearn. 75 published by registry operating address (bandar sunway) no. 5, jalan universiti, sunway city kuala lumpur, 47500 subang jaya, selangor darul ehsan tel: +6 (03) 7491 8622 fax: +6 (03) 5635 8633 email: registry@sunway.edu.my







