STUDENT
HANDBOOKSUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
Contents
SUNWAY UNIVERSITY: VISION, MISSION, CREED AND EDUCATIONAL GOALS 7
MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP REGISTRAR 8
SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION 9
1.1 General Information 9
1.2 Other University Handbook 9
1.3 Schools, Departments And Centres 10
1.4 Campuses 11
SECTION 2: STUDENT ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 12
2.1 Sunway University Student Charter 12
2.2 Student Responsibilities 14
2.3 Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) 14
2.4 Complaints And Grievances Policy 15
2.5 Student Feedback 16
2.6 University Rules 16
2.7 Zero Tolerance Against Substance Abuse 16
2.8 Blogging 17
2.9 Smoking And Vaping 17
2.10 Students With Disabilities 17
SECTION 3: PROGRAMME EXPECTATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS 18
3.1 Academic Calendars 18
3.2 Academic Dates And Important Deadlines 18
3.3 University Fees And Charges 19
3.4 Conditional Offer 20
3.5 Orientation 20
3.6 Reporting For Classes 20
3.7 Student Portal And Learning Management System 21
3.7.1 iZone 21
3.7.2 eLearn 21
3.7.3 iMail 21
3.8 Programme Delivery 21
3SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
3.9 Timetables 22 6.5 Important Reminders 37
3.10 Subject Selection 22
3.11 Credit Exemption 22 SECTION 7: STUDENT SUPPORT 38
3.12 Subject Enrolment And Pre-Enrolment 23 7.1 Student LIFE Department 38
3.12.1 Subject Enrolment 23 7.2 University Placement Services 41
3.12.2 Changes To Subject Enrolments 23 7.3 Centre For English Language Studies 41
3.12.3 Subject Withdrawal 23 7.4 Malaysian Government Loan And Sponsorship Bodies 41
3.13 MOHE Compulsory General Studies Subjects (MPU) 24 7.4.1 Perbadanan Tabung Pendidikan Tinggi Nasional Loan (PTPTN) 41
3.14 Attendance 25 7.4.2 Other Sponsorship Bodies 41
SECTION 4: ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS AND PROCEDURES 26 SECTION 8: FACILITIES AND SERVICES 42
4.1 Sources Of Administration Information 26 8.1 Tun Hussein Onn Sunway Library 43
4.2 Programme Handbooks 26 8.2 Computing And IT Services 44
4.3 Student Identification 27 8.2.1 IT Learning Labs 44
4.4 Correspondence Information Update 27 8.2.2 IT Helpdesk Counters 44
4.5 Formal Document Request 28 8.2.3 Student Access Accounts And Wifi 44
4.6 Deferment Or Leave Of Absence 28 8.2.4 The Vine, iZone, eLearn And iMail 45
4.7 Transfer Request (Programme/Intake/Study Mode) 29 8.3 Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy 45
4.8 Financial Hold Status 29 8.4 Science And Specialised Laboratories 46
4.9 Appeals 29 8.5 Safety And Health 47
4.10 Official Withdrawal 30 8.5.1 Fire Emergency 48
4.11 Programme Completion 30 8.5.2 Accident And Incident Reporting 48
4.12 Certificate And Endorsement 30 8.5.3 Lightning Warning . 48
8.5.4 Disability Services 49
SECTION 5: EXAMINATION AND ASSESSMENT 31 8.5.5 Evacuation Plan 49
5.1 Examination Arrangements 31 8.5.6 Location Of Health And Safety Office And Nightingale Bay 50
5.2 Absence From Examination 31 8.6 Campus Security Service 50
5.3 Academic Malpractice 32 8.7 Sports Facilities 51
5.3.1 Cheating In Examinations And Coursework 32 8.8 Accommodation 52
5.3.2 Plagiarism 32 8.9 Bookshop 53
5.3.3 Warning Concerning Copyright Restrictions 33 8.10 Public Transportation 53
5.4 Appeal Against University Decision 33
SECTION 9: OTHER SERVICES 54
SECTION 6: INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 34 SECTION 10: LIFESTYLE AND OUTSIDE CAMPUS 55
6.1 International Student Support 34 APPENDIX A: CODE OF CONDUCT IN EXAMINATIONS 60
6.2 Student Pass 35 APPENDIX B: GUIDELINES ON ACADEMIC MALPRACTICE 62
6.3 Attendance 36 APPENDIX C: ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE ASSESSMENT OF STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES 71
6.4 Health Insurance Requiremen 36 APPENDIX D: GUIDELINES ON ACADEMIC APPEAL 73
4 5SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
Sunway University
VISION, MISSION, CREED AND EDUCATIONAL GOALS
VISION
To be a World Class University
MISSION
To nurture all-round individuals and devote ourselves to the discovery,
advancement, transmission and application of knowledge that meet the needs of
our society and the global community
OUR CREED
Sunway University will carry out its mission with integrity and unwavering
dedication to excellence, enterprise, professionalism, financial self-reliance,
innovation, mutual respect and team spirit
OUR EDUCATIONAL GOALS
Sunway University students will:
• become independent, lifelong learners who actively pursue knowledge and
appreciate its global application to economic, political, social and cultural
development
• be empowered with the competencies and capacity to contribute to a fast-
changing economic, social and technological world
• develop strong leadership qualities and communication skills
DISCLAIMER
The information provided in this guide is correct at the time of printing. Sunway University reserves • be prepared for careers that enable them to lead productive, fulfilling and
the right to make changes to the procedures, fees and regulations from time to time as it deems meaningful lives
necessary without prior notice.
• value integrity and become ethical, accountable, caring and responsible
Students should read carefully all information on official correspondence, notice boards (including members of society
electronic Blackboard) and other sources of information for students to be aware of changes and
updates to the information published in this guide and also in the other handbooks. Sunway University seeks to carry out its mission with integrity and unwavering
Students should always refer to staff at the relevant School or Centre or Department before commitment to quality, service and excellence, financial self-reliance and
enrolment. professionalism, through continuous improvement, innovation, dedication,
The information in this handbook is correct as at 1 January 2024. caring, mutual respect and team spirit.
6 7SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
SECTION 1
Welcome
General Information
Message
1.1 GENERAL INFORMATION
The Student Handbook is designed to complement the Sunway University –
Code of Conduct and your programme handbooks. These publications provide
I the information you need to make the most out of your learning experience with
t is my great pleasure to welcome all plan your studies well and complete your Sunway University.
new students to Sunway University. studies on time.
The Student Handbook contains information you need to know about your
Congratulations on your successful Section 6 of this document provides very roles and responsibilities as a student. You will also find information about
admission to the various programmes important information to international the academic department, facilities and campus services available at Sunway
in Sunway University for the 2024 students. As such, I hope all international University campus.
academic year. You have made the students will take note of the information
right decision to join this institution and requirements stated in this section. It is your responsibility to read and be conversant with the rules and regulations
where young people come together to Information on student support, facilities, stated in the above publications. You will be expected to have this knowledge
learn from the best, to get first-hand resources and services available on the when studying at Sunway University.
knowledge through hands-on learning campus are provided in the following
and to be exposed to global intellectual sections. Besides equipping the campus The Student Handbook will be updated from time to time and the latest copy is
discourse in an experiential environment. with state-of-the-art teaching and learning posted at https://izone.sunway.edu.my
To help you navigate your life as a student facilities, the University also endeavours to
here at Sunway University, the Registry has provide students with the right ecosystem 1.2 OTHER UNIVERSITY HANDBOOK
prepared this student handbook for you. and support so that you are able to enjoy a Sunway University publishes the following handbooks:
holistic student life.
This document contains information on
THE SUNWAY UNIVERSITY This handbook has been made
campus services and resources available This is an organic document and is subject
–STUDENT CODE OF CONDUCT available to all students at
to students, general rules and regulations, to change throughout the year. You are (Published by Registry) https://izone.sunway.edu.my
enrolment matters and important dates. therefore encouraged to regularly check
This document serves as your main the online version at the Registry portal for STUDENT HANDBOOK FOR Incorporating information for students
source of reference on official information updates. I hope you will benefit from the POSTGRADUATE PROGRAMMES undertaking the Sunway University
related to academic administration and information provided in this document. (Published by School/Centre/Department) postgraduate programmes.
your responsibilities as a student in the
University. It is hoped that you will use the Ms Ng Beng Lean
PROGRAMME HANDBOOK Incorporating programme information for
information provided in this document to Group Registrar (Published by School/Centre/Department) students.
8 9SECTION 1 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
SCHOOLS, DEPARTMENTS AND CENTRES CAMPUSES
Sunway has five campuses operating at different locations in Malaysia.
SUNWAY BUSINESS SCHOOL (SBS) • Centre for Research-Creation in Digital Media
• Department of Accounting • Centre for South Asian and Indian Ocean Studies
SUNWAY COLLEGE
• Department of Economics and Finance
Operating address (Bandar Sunway):
• Department of Management SCHOOL OF MATHEMATICAL
No 2, Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway
• Department of Marketing Strategy & Innovation SCIENCES (SMS)
47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan.
• Department of Business Analytics • Department of Actuarial Science & Risk
Tel: 03-5638 7176
• Sunway Centre for Environmental Social Governance • Department of Pure and Applied Mathematics
Website: College.sunway.edu.my
• Centre for Commercial Law and Justice • Department of Applied Statistics
• Jeffrey Sachs Centre on Sustainable Development • Centre for Actuarial and Analytics Research
• Jeffrey Cheah Institute on Southeast Asia Operating address (Velocity):
• Yunus Social Business Centre SCHOOL OF HOSPITALITY AND V01-06-01, Lingkaran SV
SERVICE MANAGEMENT (SHSM) Sunway Velocity, 55100 Kuala Lumpur SUNWAY COLLEGE JOHOR BAHRU
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING AND • Asia Pacific Centre for Hospitality Research Tel: 03-97701155 No 3 Jalan Austin Heights Utama,
TECHNOLOGY (SET) • Centre for Hospitality Innovation and Leadership Website: Sunway.edu.my/velocity Taman Mount Austin, 81100 Johor
• Department of Engineering Bahru, Johor Darul Ta’zim.
• Department of Computing and Information System SCHOOL OF EDUCATION (SOE) SUNWAY UNIVERSITY Tel: 07-359 6880
• Research Centre for Nano-Materials and Energy • Department of Professional and Continuing Education No 5 Jalan Universiti, Bandar Sunway Fax: 07-359 6881
• Research Centre for Carbon Dioxide Capture and • Department of Educational Development and Innovation 47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan. Website: Sunway.edu.my/jb
Utilization • Centre for Higher Education Research Tel: 03-7491 8622
• Sunway Centre for Electrochemical Energy and Fax: 03-5635 8630 SUNWAY COLLEGE KUCHING
Sustainable Technology SCHOOL OF AMERICAN EDUCATION Website: University.sunway.edu.my No.1, Song Plaza (1st Floor),
• Research Centre for Human-Machine Collaboration (SAE)
Lot 12168, Block 16, Jalan Tun Jugah /
• Department of American Degree Transfer Programme
Jalan Song Intersection,
SCHOOL OF MEDICAL AND LIFE • Department of Liberal Arts and Sciences
93350 Kuching, Sarawak, Malaysia
SCIENCES (SMLS)
Tel: 082-451 221
• Department of Medical Sciences UNIVERSITY CENTRES
Fax: 082-461 226
• Department of Psychology • Sunway Centre for Planetary Health
Website:swck.edu.my
• Department of Nursing • Future Cities Research Institute
• Department of Medical Education • Institute for Global Strategy and Competitiveness
• Department of Biological Sciences • Centre for English Language Studies
SUNWAY COLLEGE IPOH
• Aging Health and Well-being Research Centre • Sustainable Development Solutions Network ASIA
No 1, 3 & 5, Persiaran SCI 2/2, Sunway
• Sunway Biofunctional Molecules Discovery Centre • Sunway Innovation Labs
City Ipoh, 31150 Ipoh,
• Sunway Microbiome Centre
Perak Darul Ridzuan.
To get more information about the courses, Tel: 05-545 4398
SCHOOL OF ARTS (SOA)
• Department of Communication programmes that are offered by the Fax: 05-547 4926
Schools, Departments and Centres in
• Department of Film and Performing Arts Website: Sunway.edu.my/ipoh
Sunway University, please visit the website:
• Department of Art, Design and Media
https://sunwayuniversity.edu.my/
10 11SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
•Provide an assessment system which is fair and transparent to all students;
SECTION 2 •Provide reasonable access to teaching staff/research supervisors to discuss
programme matters;
Student Roles and •Provide reasonable access to the University facilities and resources (e.g. library, IT labs);
•Seek student feedback in improving courses and services in the University;
Responsibilities •Provide appropriate guidance in the completion of undergraduate/postgraduate studies;
•Offer suitable research topics based on the availability of facilities/resources and
qualified supervisors in the field of intended research;
•Appoint qualified examiners to evaluate final thesis/dissertation.
2.1 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT CHARTER Students are expected to:
Sunway University is committed to providing a safe and enriching environment •Familiarise themselves with the University rules and regulations;
to help students achieve their full potential. The Student Charter outlines the •Be committed in their studies and take the responsibility to monitor their own
approach Sunway University takes to support the students’ learning and help progress in the chosen programme;
them achieve their full potential. The Charter also outlines the key expectations •Ensure that all requirements and regulations of the programme or research are followed;
and responsibilities of a student at Sunway University. •Respect all University staff and other students; avoid discrimination and harassment;
•Use University facilities in a responsible manner (including library, IT labs);
The Student Charter encourages positive interaction between students and staff. •Activate and utilise the University official student email account in the duration of
The success of this partnership requires commitment and participation from study to ensure accurate communication between University and students (e.g.
both parties. The Charter is also intended to be an evolving document which will results notification, outstanding fees);
be reviewed periodically in the light of feedback and experience and is in no way •Attend classes, submit assessment as required and fulfil attendance requirement;
a detailed personal agreement or contract. •Provide honest feedback and comments about their academic programmes, learning
experience and services through surveys;
Sunway University is expected to: •Pay all fees and charges within the deadline set by the University;
•Provide high quality teaching and learning which will enhance student learning •Enroll correctly according to programme requirements and pre-requisites to ensure
and development; graduating in the chosen programme;
• Provide a safe and conducive environment for study, research and other activities; •Participate in the election of the Student Council who are representatives of the
•Ensure that staff are courteous, professional and efficient; student body;
•Maintain effective communication with students, provide accurate and timely •Recognise that plagiarism is not acceptable;
feedback about programmes, services and processes; •Seek advice when required from teaching staff and support services (e.g. counselling,
•Provide useful feedback on assessment/academic work and opportunities for health, etc.);
discussion; •Behave in a responsible manner and act as ambassadors for the University;
•Ensure students are treated equally and fairly by rejecting discrimination and •Maintain regular contact with teaching staff/supervisors for advice and constructive
harassment; feedback;
• Provide clear information on fees and other costs of studying and payment methods; •Inform research supervisors if there are special needs required in completing the
•Provide information on student support services available in the University; postgraduate research;
•Ensure that students contribute and participate in decision making through •Protect any intellectual property throughout the course of research and ensure all
the Student Council; ethical procedures are followed.
12 13SECTION 2 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
2.2 STUDENT RESPONSIBILITIES 2.4 COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES POLICY
As a student of Sunway University, it is your responsibility to: This policy ensures that grievances and complaints are quickly and
• Apply yourself fully to your studies. effectively resolved using standard procedures. Purpose:
• Be familiar with the rules and regulations governing the programme in which • Ensure that the rights of both the University and the student are
you are enrolled. protected when a student submits a complaint or grievance.
• Ensure that you have selected the subjects to meet your programme • Ensure that the University processes enable student grievances and
requirements. complaints to be resolved quickly and effectively.
• Be punctual and attend all lectures, tutorials, practical sessions and seminars • Ensure that the resolution of student complaints and grievances follows
(if applicable) for each subject in which you are enrolled. standard procedures across all departments in the University.
• Meet deadlines for coursework to be submitted.
• Submit original work without plagiarising or cheating.
• Take the initiative and consult appropriately when encountering problems. What is a grievance?
• Be aware of the policies and practices of the University and of any academic or If you believe that you have been treated unfairly, you can seek
non-academic department contained in the materials and information made explanation and/or help. Such issues may concern an academic
available to you. or administrative decision, the behavior of staff, the quality
• Be aware of the rules and of teaching, the provision of services in the University, etc.
regulations concerning the However, the policy does not cover unsatisfactory academic
use of campus facilities – progress, discipline, and exclusion for health and safety reasons.
IT, library, laboratories, etc.
• Demonstrate tolerance and
respect for other students
and all staff of the Whom should I talk to about my grievance?
University. Most complaints can be resolved immediately. First, talk to the
• Provide constructive person about your concerns to see if your issue can be
feedback to the resolved. This person can be a student or a staff member of
University regarding the University. If such a discussion is not appropriate or you
academic and administrative feel uncomfortable about approaching the person, you may
matters when necessary. direct the complaint to the next appropriate level, such as
your School/Centre Manager or the HOD. A senior member of
2.3 PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION ACT (PDPA) staff will be assigned to investigate and attempt to conciliate
Sunway Education Group respects and is committed to the protection of your the matter after receiving a complaint. If the issue cannot be
personal information and your privacy. This Personal Data Protection Notice resolved at this level, you may submit a formal grievance (in
explains how we collect and handle your personal information in accordance with written form) to the Group Registrar of Sunway University.
the Malaysian Personal Data Protection Act 2010. Please note that the institution
may amend this Personal Data Protection Notice at any time without prior
notice and will notify you of any such amendment via our website or by email.
Detailed information is available at http://sunway.edu.my/pdpa/notice_english.html
14 15SECTION 2 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
2.5 STUDENT FEEDBACK 2.9 SMOKING AND/OR VAPING
Student feedback is considered to be a vital element of the programme since it is Smoking and/or vaping is strictly prohibited when you are in all areas of Sunway
through such feedback that the programme can be improved. There are a number campus (including areas such as car parks, sports facilities, toilets and campus
of mechanisms for student feedback: accommodation). This prohibition covers all forms of smoking including
• At the end of each semester, an evaluation questionnaire will be issued. cigarettes, real or electronic, pipes and other smoking utensils.
•`Each intake is entitled to nominate a student to act as representative
on the Student-Staff Committee. The Committee meets once every 2.10 STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES
long semester and encourages dialogue between students and staff in Students are strongly encouraged to disclose any disability (physical or learning
areas of administration, learning and teaching. difficulty) information to and seek advice and support from the Programme
• Students are entitled to raise matters of concern or complaint with the Leader/Coordinator. The University will seek to make reasonable adjustments to
lecturer, project supervisors or Programme Coordinator. support the student whilst on the programme.
• Where appropriate a complaint may be made directly to the Dean.
The operation of appropriate special arrangements can be supported for students
2.6 UNIVERSITY RULES undertaking assessment, including timed examinations where a valid claim has
The Sunway University - Student Code of Conduct contains information about been made and agreed in accordance with the relevant procedures (Appendix
the general rules and regulations applicable. The Sunway University - Student C). Requests for special arrangements may be refused where insufficient notice
Code of Conduct contains information about the general rules and regulations is given.
applicable to all students studying at the University. It also covers general policies
and procedures which include student discipline proceedings. You may visit
https://vine.sunway.edu.my to get the latest copy.
2.7 ZERO TOLERANCE AGAINST SUBSTANCE ABUSE
The use, possession, sale, or distribution of any drug or substance which is stated
in the First Schedule to the Dangerous Drugs Ordinance, 1952, and as amended
and supplemented from time to time and other related laws and regulations on
illicit drugs, or controlled substances is strictly prohibited on campus premises.
The institution has zero tolerance against substance abuse, and any student
found to be in violation , whether on or off-campus, will be subject to disciplinary
action, including suspension and/or expulsion. This applies to all registered
students of the institution.
2.8 BLOGGING
You are advised to exercise caution when posting information (in any form) on
the Internet and avoid writing anything defamatory or seditious in your posting
against the reputation of Sunway University and staff (including lecturers). The
University may take disciplinary action against any student committing such
offences if it deems that the posted information is offensive.
16 17SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
SECTION 3
3.3 UNIVERSITY FEES AND CHARGES
Fees due must be paid at the beginning of each semester. The Management
Programme
reserves the right to exclude a student from attending classes
and using campus facilities until the fees due are paid up. Any
Expectations and
assessment or examination result(s), and
academic transcripts shall be
Requirements withheld if payment remains
outstanding, and students
concerned will not be able
to enrol in subsequent
3.1 ACADEMIC CALENDARS semester or to graduate.
Academic calendars are published on a yearly basis and they are available in the
Learning Management System, eLearn. TYPES OF FEES
• Enrolment fee : Upon accepting the offer of a place
3.2 ACADEMIC DATES AND IMPORTANT DEADLINES (non-refundable)
Each semester period is determined by a start-date and an end-date. Another • Deposit : Refundable
important date within a semester period is the “Add/Drop Subject period”, which • International admin fee : Payable by semester *
normally takes place within the first 2 weeks of a semester. This is the period • Tuition fee : Payable by semester *
where your subject enrolment is to be finalised. You are not allowed to change • Student resource fee 1 : Payable by semester *
your subject enrolment for the semester after the Add/Drop Subject period. • Compulsory General Studies subject fee : Payable by subject
It is important to note that, certain fees paid are neither transferable nor
Other fees2 (according to the programme enrolled)
refundable whether or not the adjustment of enrolment takes place within the
• Lab fee (computer/IT/science related subjects)
Add/Drop Subject period. It is your responsibility to make yourself aware of the
• Security deposit
semester periods of the programme enrolled; the relevant Add/Drop Subject
• Placement fee
period and financial penalties.
• Practical fee
• Uniform and Utensils fee
Students should take note of the following deadlines
• Examination/Exemption fee (internal/external)
LONG SEMESTER SHORT SEMESTER • Literacy test fee
(14 WEEKS) (7 WEEKS)
• Student pass/special pass fee for visa endorsement/extension
SUBJECT ENROLMENT Before week 1 Before week 1 For more information about the types of fee payable, please refer to the fees
structure of the respective programme.
LAST DATE TO ADD/DROP SUBJECTS End of week 2 End of week 1
* (for Malaysian only)
LAST DATE FOR SUBJECT WITHDRAWAL *Terms and conditions apply for International Students. Please refer to the International Office(IO) for more
End of week 10 End of week 5
(with notation “W” in transcript) information.
1. The student resource fee will be revised on a yearly basis and subject to change without prior notice.
*The tuition fee and other fees are stipulated in the fees structure of your programme. 2. Other fees may exist, which are not listed in the above table.
Semester fees must be paid in full on or before the commencement of new semester.
18 19SECTION 3 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
3.4 CONDITIONAL OFFER 3.7 STUDENT PORTAL AND LEARNING MANAGEMENT
If you are currently studying in a programme under condition(s), you should SYSTEM
request for a review of your current status at the earliest possible date. The
review must be made within the first semester of your study or within the period 3.7.1 iZONE
specified in your offer letter. Students with forecast/pending results must submit iZone is the Sunway University Student Portal through which students can
a certified true copy of their actual results to the Registry within 10 working days manage their studies. iZone allows students to enrol for subjects each semester
from the official release date of the actual results. and to obtain your exam results each semester. You may access iZone at
https://izone.sunway.edu.my/
Failure to convert your conditional offer status on time will lead to
3.7.2 eLEARN
your registration in the current programme being terminated. Further
query and/or request for a review of your current status can be made eLearn is a web-based learning management system at Sunway University. It
at the Registry or by email at srga-op@sunway.edu.my. is an integral part of your studies, as it used to obtain up-to-date and relevant
information on the following:
• Class Timetable
3.5 ORIENTATION • Lecturer’s Timetable
Orientation will be conducted at the • Subject Syllabus
beginning of each intake for new students • Lesson Plan and Lecture Notes
before the first semester commences. • Assignment Details
It is designed to help you settle into the You may access eLearn at https://elearn.sunway.edu.my/
University by providing you with the
important information you need at the 3.7.3 iMAIL
start of your studies. You will be given iMail is the Sunway University Student Email. All registered students at Sunway
relevant briefings to familiarise yourself University are issued an official iMail account. The use of iMail accounts is one of
with the policies and regulations governing the official communication channels between University and students.
your studies as well as guided tours to You may access the iMail at http://www.imail.sunway.edu.my/
the various departments in the Sunway
University campus.
Valid student login credentials are required in order to access eLearn and
iZone and iMail. Contact your programme coordinator or IT Services staff
3.6 REPORTING FOR CLASSES
if you face problems with access.
You are expected to report for classes “(Orientation) is designed
at the beginning of each semester of the
to help you settle into the
programme enrolled. In the event that you
University by providing
are unable to do so, you must inform your 3.8 PROGRAMME DELIVERY
you with the important
HOD or School/Centre Manager in written The University reserves the right to vary programme content as well as the
information you need at the
form explaining your circumstances. You locations and modes of academic delivery in case of force majeure.
will then be advised to take the necessary start of your studies”
action.
20 21SECTION 3 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
3.9 TIMETABLES 3.12 SUBJECT ENROLMENT AND PRE-ENROLMENT
Timetables are posted on eLearn. Additional information, such as allocation
of students to groups for tutorials and laboratory purposes will also be posted 3.12.1 SUBJECT ENROLMENT
from time to time. In addition, please check the online notice boards regularly, You are required to enrol for the subjects in each semester in order to complete
and make sure you are aware of your timetable commitments, and that you your study. To do this, you may be asked to select and enrol for subjects for the
attend at the proper time. new or following semester within the designated enrolment period. Information
regarding the method and specific dates of enrolment will be given by the school
3.10 SUBJECT SELECTION or academic department. It is your responsibility to ensure that your enrolment is
One or more staff members at the school or academic department of correct and submit formal request for the change in enrolment if necessary. You
the programme enrolled will be appointed to give advice on programme should seek advice from your School/Centre prior to submitting such request.
requirements, subject selection and other academic matters. You may contact
any of the following staff: If you fail to enrol or submit formal requests within this period, you may be
• Head of Department (HOD) subjected to the following:
• Programme Leader i. Liable for the payment of fees in the semester
• School/Centre/Department Manager ii. A fail grade will be recorded in each subject of the semester
• Programme Coordinator iii. A prolonged period of your total study period
3.11 CREDIT EXEMPTION 3.12.2 CHANGES TO SUBJECT ENROLMENTS
Students with recognised Students shall be permitted to change subject enrolments within the first two
diploma qualifications are (2) weeks of a long semester (14 weeks), or one (1) week of a short semester (7
eligible to apply for credit weeks), which is known as the Subject Add/Drop period.
exemption. Students may also
seek credit exemption and/ Students are not permitted to register for additional subjects after the Subject
or credit transfer for subjects Add/Drop period. Tuition fees will not be refunded for subjects withdrawn after
completed during a Student the Subject Add/Drop period.
Exchange programme, Study
Abroad programme, or prior 3.12.3 SUBJECT WITHDRAWAL
incomplete/completed studies The last date for subject withdrawal is by end of week ten (10) for a long semester
at Bachelor’s level. and by end of week five (5) for a short semester. Subject withdrawal is only
permitted if the student satisfies the following conditions:
Students are required to complete and submit the Credit Exemption/Transfer i. The student’s minimum academic load as full-time or part-time student is met
Form to the Registry, along with certified true copies of their official examination after the withdrawal
results/transcripts and certificates of his/her academic achievements to the ii. Only 1 withdrawal is allowed for every academic year (applicable only to
School/Centre. The syllabi for subjects taken in prior studies may be required ADTP)
for evaluation of equivalency to the subjects in the programme enrolled at iii. Subjects withdrawn after the Subject Add/Drop period will appear in the
Sunway University. The School/Centre has the authority to grant or reject any academic transcript with the notation ‘W’.
transfer of credits and exemption from subjects in the new programme.
22 23SECTION 3 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
3.13 MOHE COMPULSORY GENERAL STUDIES SUBJECTS 3.14 ATTENDANCE
(MPU) The University has a duty of care to its students and to ensure that each
The General Studies subjects, are to be taken by all Malaysian and international student makes the most of their learning opportunities while studying at
students of Certificate, Diploma, Advanced Diploma and Degree. It is aimed the University. All students are expected to attend all teaching sessions
at providing students with a holistic education and opportunities to engage in on the timetable.
diverse life-long learning skills while acquiring valuable knowledge. The General
Studies comprises of four main categories, which include the following: Students are responsible for ensuring their attendance is rightly recorded
• MPU U1 : Appreciation of philosophy, values and history via the mechanism provided by the Schools. Unsatisfactory Attendance
• MPU U2 : Mastery of soft skills Report (UAR) will be issued to students who do not meet the minimum
• MPU U3 : Broadening of knowledge in Malaysia attendance of 80%.
• MPU U4 : Practical management of community projects
“Students are
It is the student’s responsibility to inform the
responsible for
In addition to the above, Malaysian students who do not have a ‘Credit’ in Bahasa lecturer/Programme Leader/Coordinator of his/
Melayu from Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM) is required to undertake Bahasa her absence. The student may be required to ensuring their
Kebangsaan (A). disclose the reasons for absence. In cases where attendance is rightly
absence was due to special circumstances (e.g. recorded via the
illness or family bereavement), students are
Exemptions: mechanism provided
expected to inform the School as soon as possible
• Malaysian students can be exempted from taking the Bahasa by the Schools.”
so that the absence records can be updated. Failing
Kebangsaan (A) subject if you have obtained a grade of credit
to meet the minimum attendance requirements
or better in your Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM) Bahasa Malaysia
paper. If eligible, you are required to apply for the exemption without notification (and after all efforts made by
using the exemption application form and submit a certified copy the University to locate the students) will result in
of your SPM result slip/certificate. automatic deferment of the studies.
• Foundation and Postgraduate students are exempted from taking
the MOHE Compulsory General Studies Subjects (MPU). If the student require time away from studies, please discuss this with
the Programme Leader or Head of Department. If he/she feel that an
unauthorised absence has been mistakenly recorded, he/she should inform
the Programme Leader/Coordinator or designated administrative staff as
soon as possible. The School will monitor student attendance as below:
• During Lectures, tutorials and workshops (for conventional taught
programmes)
• Via the formal assessments (for ODL taught programmes)
• During Mentor / Supervised meetings (for postgraduate research
programmes)
For International Students, please refer to Item 6.3 of this Handbook on
Attendance Requirement for International Students.
24 25SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
4.3 STUDENT IDENTIFICATION
SECTION 4
You will be issued a student identification card, which contains your photograph,
Administrative name and a unique student identification number. Your card identifies you as
a registered student of Sunway University and enables you to access common
Matters and services and other services related to the programme enrolled.
Your student identification card remains the property of Sunway University and
Procedures
is not transferable. You must carry your card at all times while in campus. You
should take reasonable care to protect your student identification card. It should
not be given to anyone else for use. Misuse of a student identification card may
constitute misconduct.
4.1 SOURCES OF ADMINISTRATION INFORMATION
For advice on academic concerns, contact your School/Centre Manager or Head
LOSS OF STUDENT The replacement for a lost card will incur a fee of RM47
of Department. You may also refer to your programme handbook for information
IDENTIFICATION unless there is a police report. You should contact the
about managing your studies. Where to obtain information and help about CARD Registry for instructions on replacing a lost card.
managing your studies?
The expiry date shown on your student identification card
YOUR SCHOOL / CENTRE Enrolment, programmes, subject prerequisites, is calculated based on the duration of your programme.
exemptions, timetables If you need to extend the expiry date, the Registry will
EXPIRED CARDS
Admission, programme requirements, produce a new card with the extended expiry date
ADMISSIONS OFFICE programme fees (without any charges) upon the return of your existing
student identification card.
Student records, Examinations (transcripts,
REGISTRY
certificates), graduation
FINANCIAL SERVICES Fees, refunds
4.4 CORRESPONDENCE INFORMATION UPDATE
Visa application, student pass renewals, It is your responsibility to ensure that information related to you kept by the
INTERNATIONAL OFFICE (IO)
immigration requirement
University is up-to-date and formally notify the Registry of any changes – especially
change of contact numbers and addresses. All hardcopies of correspondence
SUNWAY RESIDENCE MANAGEMENT Residence booking, charges
will be sent to the correspondence address recorded in the University computer
system for student records.
4.2 PROGRAMME HANDBOOKS
You can update your permanent address, residence address and other
The programme handbooks are produced annually by the respective academic contact details by editing them directly in your ‘My Profile’ page of iZone
departments. These documents contain information on the programmes and (https://izone.sunway.edu.my/login). Request for such changes via the
subjects/units/modules offered to students in the academic year. The programme telephone will not be accepted.
handbook is available in the Learning Management System, eLearn.
26 27SECTION 4 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
4.5 FORMAL DOCUMENT REQUEST 4.7 TRANSFER REQUEST (PROGRAMME/INTAKE/
A Confirmation of Student Status letter is a formal document to certify your STUDY MODE)
studies, registration with the University, enrolment details or completion of The criteria for registered students to be eligible to apply for transfers are that
study, etc. A letter may be required by a third party such as government agencies, they must meet the following requirements:
sponsors, private organisations or employers. • Not on financial hold.
• Fulfil the minimum requirements for admission into the new programme.
Students can also request for the • Obtain approvals from HOD or School/Centre Manager of the programme(s)
The current list of formal documents/ letters through Izone. All requests involved for the release and acceptance of registrations. It is recommended that
letters available is given below: for documents/letters must be you seek advice from the HOD or School/ Centre Manager before applying for
• Certificate of student status formally submitted by the student. a transfer.
• EPF withdrawal letter A fee may be charged for the
• Enrolment notification issuance of each document. The
confirmation issuance of a document/letter may 4.8 FINANCIAL HOLD STATUS
• Letter of Offer take within 3 to 10 working days Students will be put under financial hold status if they have outstanding
• Academic transcript/progress depending on the necessity for payment(s) with th University. With this status activated, students will not be
report internal verification of your record. permitted to attend classes and access to the University facilities – such as the
library, computer services, science labs, residence, etc will be barred; unless
clearance of the debts is made.
4.6 DEFERMENT OR LEAVE OF ABSENCE
If you wish to take a break in your studies, you must apply for deferment (or more You should avoid risking yourself from the financial hold status by making sure
commonly referred to as a ‘leave of absence’). In order to do this, you must first that you pay all fees applicable in your programme of study (including residence
complete a Student Status Modification Form and submit it to the Registry (for and other resource fees) at the start of each semester or by the designated
local students) or International Office (for international students). A deferment timeframe.
is normally granted for 1 semester period. You are allowed a maximum of 2
deferments or a total deferment period of not more than 1 calendar year in your
programme of study. 4.9 APPEALS
Appeals should be submitted to the respective personnel as listed below.
It is your responsibility to be aware of the designated enrolment timeframe
before applying for deferment in order to avoid paying any penalties. During the
HEAD OF Academic matters: admissions, enrolments,
deferment period, you are considered a registered student of the University. You DEPARTMENT progression, and Appeals against examination results.
will be notified of the date to return to your programme of study and expected to
report yourself for classes within the designated timeframe.
FINANCIAL SERVICES
Fees matters: fees payment, forfeiture of fees, etc.
MANAGER
Deferment for Students with PTPTN Loan: Students with PTPTN Loan who
wished to defer their studies are advised to seek clarification from PTPTN before
applying for a deferment because it may affect their loan agreement with PTPTN GROUP REGISTRAR Disciplinary matters
and/ or disqualify them from applying for a loan waiver from PTPTN should they
manage to secure a first class honours degree upon completion of their studies.
28 29SECTION 4 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
4.10 OFFICIAL WITHDRAWAL
SECTION 5
When discontinuing a programme, you must be aware of the relevant dates
for refund/transfer of fees paid to avoid penalties. Enrolment and General fees Examination
are non-refundable whereas the proportion of tuition fee refund, upon official
withdrawal, is shown below: and Assessment
• 75% refund (by the 5th working day from the commencement of semester)
• 50% refund (by the 6th–8th working day from the commencement of semester)
• No refund (after the 8th working day from the commencement of semester)
5.1 EXAMINATION ARRANGEMENTS
If you wish to fully discontinue from your programme, you must consult/notify An examination is defined as a formal, timed assessment of any duration that
your HOD or programme coordinator and complete a Student Status Modification is subject to continuous invigilation. The University operates a strict Code of
Form and submit it to the Registry (for local students) or International Office (for Conduct (Appendix A) in relation to the behaviour of examination candidates. A
international students). copy is made available to all examination candidates.
4.11 PROGRAMME COMPLETION It is the responsibility of the student to attend examinations in accordance with
At the end of your programme, you should complete the Student Status the published schedule. A student who fail to attend an examination will be
Modification Form and submit it to the Registry (for local students) or International awarded zero mark, unless mitigating circumstances are accepted.
Office (for international students) if you do not wish to further your study at the
University. This is to officially end your registration as a student at the University The University may require students to register for examinations and reserves
and also to formally request for the refund of deposits paid for your study. You the right to make a charge for this.
should be aware of the period allowed for request of refund of deposits to avoid
forfeiture of funds. Examination scripts are not generally returned to
students.
“It is the
4.12 CERTIFICATE AND ENDORSEMENT
responsibility of the
The University will provide appropriate certificates for all students who have 5.2 ABSENCE FROM EXAMINATION
successfully completed an academic programme. Endorsement or acceptance of Students are expected to be present for all tests and student to attend
certificates are subject to third parties’ discretion. examinations at the time and place announced. If a examinations in
student is absent without valid reason (mitigating accordance with the
circumstances) supported by documentary
published schedule.
evidence, mark of zero will be awarded. Absence
due to medical or extenuating circumstances will
only be accepted if the student presents evidence
within three working days to support his/her claim
(such as a medical certificate issued by a doctor).
Self-certification without a doctor’s confirmation will not be accepted.
30 31SECTION 5 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
5.3 ACADEMIC MALPRACTICE 5.3.3 WARNING CONCERNING COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS
Duplication, in any form, including digitally, of materials with copyright is strictly
5.3.1 CHEATING IN EXAMINATIONS AND COURSEWORK prohibited under the Copyright Act 1987, as amended and supplemented from
Students’ attention is drawn to the fact that cheating in examination and time to time.
coursework is a serious academic offence that may constitute grounds for
exclusion. Students are reminded of the regulations, which includes cheating as: The Copyright Act 1987 governs the protection of copyrighted works in Malaysia.
• communicating with or copying from any other student during an examination; Copyright works refer to lecture notes, slides and reading materials, as well as
• communicating during an examination with any person other than a properly other literary, musical or artistic works (which includes books, plays, photographs,
authorised invigilator; sculptures, paintings, computer programs) and films, sound recordings or
• introducing unauthorised written, printed or broadcasts.
“Students’ attention
electronically stored material into an examination
is drawn to the fact
room; Any unauthorised reproductions, sale or hire,
that cheating in
• gaining access to any unauthorised material distribution and public exhibition by way of trade,
examination and
relating to an examination during or before the constitutes infringement of copyright. Any breach of
specified time coursework is a serious the Copyright Act 1987 is a punishable offence by the
academic offence enforcement authorities. Students who violate the
that may constitute Copyright Act 1987 can be penalised by the University
5.3.2 PLAGIARISM in accordance to the Disciplinary Procedures for
grounds for exclusion.”
Plagiarism involves the unacknowledged use Students outlined in the Student Code of Conduct.
of someone else’s work, usually in coursework,
and passing it off as if it were his/her own. This
For more information, please refer to the official portal of Intellectual Property
category of cheating includes the following:
Corporation of Malaysia (MyIPO) at https://www.myipo.gov.my/en/home/
• verbatim copying or insertion of another person’s Details of the procedures involved in cases of Academic Malpractice can be
work (published or unpublished and including found in Appendix B. Further details can be found in the University Academic
material Malpractice Policy and Procedures documents available in the iZone.
• freely available in electronic form) without
appropriate acknowledgement;
• the deliberate and detailed presentation of 5.4 APPEAL AGAINST UNIVERSITY DECISION
another person’s concept as one’s own; A student who is dissatisfied with the result of an examination or other decision
• unacknowledged quotation of phrases from by the Assessment Board on the grounds listed in Appendix D may submit a
another person’s work formal application of appeal to the School. The appeal must be made within
FIFTEEN (15) working days of the release of result or receipt of notification on the
Please note that “Turnitin” is a software to detect plagiarism and the University Assessment Board’s decision. Appeals received outside the stated timescales,
reserves the right to use this software on all submitted assignments. without good reason, will be ruled invalid. The procedures for making an appeal
against the University’s decision can be found in Appendix D. Students are
Other forms of dishonest practice not falling within the above definitions may required to refer to the University Policy and Procedures documents available in
also amount to malpractice. the iZone for further details on the appeal.
32 33SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
6.2 STUDENT PASS
The policies and regulations governing student passes are imposed by the
Malaysian Immigration Department and they are applicable to all international
students studying in Malaysia. These rules and regulations must be adhered to.
All international students are required to:
Possess a valid Student Pass while studying in Malaysia. New
International Students are required to complete the mandatory post-
arrival medical screening to obtain the student pass endorsement.
SECTION 6
Ensure that their student passes are submitted to the International
International Office for extension (renewal) 3 months prior to the date of expiry.
Inform the International Office before making plans related to their stay
Students
in Malaysia, such as change in pass status, change in contacts/addresses,
returning home for holidays, application for deferment/transfer/
withdrawal, industrial training/internship, etc.
6.1 INTERNATIONAL STUDENT SUPPORT Report to the International Office upon completion of studies/
Specialised support and services are available at the International Office. The graduation and provide a copy of their flight ticket and passport to
International Office is located within the Student Centre at Level G (Ground), cancel their student visa. They are also required to complete the
North Building, next to the cafeteria.Trained staff are available to aid, advice and Student Status Modification Form and submit it to their respective
support which include: programme administrator for approval and also to process the refund
• Application for admission procedures of deposit.
• Airport pickup
• Accommodation arrangement Adhere to all other procedures and regulations imposed by relevant
• Student pass (application, renewal, cancellation and queries) authorities.
• Insurance (hospitalization and outpatient)
International students are strongly reminded to check the expiry dates of their
student passes. It is their responsibility to update the International Office of their
student pass status at all times.
If you are a student transferring from another institution within Malaysia into
Sunway University, you must make a new student pass application to study at the
University as you may otherwise face the risk of being deported midway through
your studies.
34 35SECTION 6 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
6.3 ATTENDANCE 6.4 IMPORTANT REMINDERS
All international students are required to adhere If you are holding an international student pass studying at Sunway
to the policy of the Immigration Department University, you must be aware and observe the following:
of Malaysia, and to meet a minimum of 80%
of attendance and achieve a cumulative GPA • Your enrolment will be invalidated if you fail to complete the
of at least 2.00 and higher, for the renewal or enrolment process properly and / or not reporting for classes. You
extension of the student visa. The University will be required to return to your home country immediately.
is obliged by Malaysian law to inform the
Immigration Department when an international • If you choose to defer your studies, you are required to inform
student is absent for three consecutive classes the International Office and provide supporting documents for
in a semester without a valid reason. your application for deferment (leave of absence). Apart from the
approval from your HOD or School/Centre Manager, you also required to
“The University is obliged
Non-compliance to the attendance requirement obtain approval from the International Office by submitting the
by Malaysian law to
(including absence for three (3) or more Student Status Modification Form Once your deferment
consecutive classes without valid supporting inform the Immigration is approved, you are required to return to your home country.
documents) will result in: Department when an Deferment without proper approval may result in a breach of the
• Notification to the police, Ministry of Higher international student student pass conditions. The International Office will proceed
Education Malaysia, Education Malaysia with making a police report on your absence from classes.
is absent for three
Global Services (EMGS) and Immigration
consecutive classes in a
Department of Malaysia; and/or • If you choose to discontinue your studies, you are required to inform
semester without a valid
• Cancellation / non-renewal of his/he the International Office and you will be advised on the procedures
student pass resulting in his/her course reason.” and documentation required.
discontinuation
• If you are transferring to another institution within Malaysia, you are
required to obtain an official offer letter from the new institution and
Any student who plans to be absent from University with valid reason at
inform the International Office. The international Office will then
any point during his/her studies, must inform the Programme Leader or
Head of Department in advance of the absence, and to ensure that his/her advise you on the procedures and documentation required.
contact information is up-to-date. (Please refer to the International Office
Student Handbook)
INTERNATIONAL OFFICE CONTACTS HOTLINE
(Airport Pickup, Welfare Issues and Emergencies):
+6019 336 2242
6.3 HEALTH INSURANCE REQUIREMENT
While you are in Malaysia, you must be covered with a Student Health Insurance
Policy. This is a condition for your student pass for the duration of your stay. It is
the responsibility of the student to remain enrolled in order for the policy to be
renewed annually. Please contact the International Office for further information.
36 37SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
ALUMNI RELATIONS
SECTION 7
• Promotes and foster effective relationships between graduates and the University via
Student Support various networking and developmental programmes.
• Alumni can contribute back to the institution via mentoring or speaking engagements.
E-mail: alumni@sunway.edu.my
7.1 STUDENT LIFE SCHOLARSHIP
The aim of Student LIFE is to provide a supportive, friendly and stimulating • Provides information on scholarship and awards available at Sunway University.
environment outside the classroom, to aid academic success as well as individual E-mail: scholarship@sunway.edu.my
development. The respective units under Student LIFE provides the following
services:
COUNSELLING AND WELLNESS
• Provides professional and confidential
counselling by experienced and
trained therapists on matters relating to
academic, or social and personal issues
such as emotional difficulties,
relationship, self-development or family
problems and cultural issues.
E-mail: counselling@sunway.edu.my
SUNWAY CAREER SERVICES
• Provides comprehensive
employment guide and career
services to students, graduates
and employers.
• Organises employment related
events and training involving
students and employers.
• Provides information relating to
career planning, job selection and
employment advice. SPORTS
E-mail: careerservices@sunway.edu.my • Provides information regarding sports facilities, sports clubs and tournaments
E-mail: sports@sunway.edu.my
38 39SECTION 7 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
STUDENT LEADERSHIP & ENGAGEMENT 7.2 UNIVERSITY PLACEMENT SERVICES
• Provides avenues for students to tap into their full potential via leadership This is the centre where students can make enquiries on university placement
opportunities, creative thinking projects and community service. matters. Brochures are available for your research on universities and programmes.
• Facilitates student-run councils, clubs and societies by providing administrative Presentations by various visiting universities, education fairs and other useful
support and advisory role for student activities. information will be disseminated through your programme notice boards
E-mail: sle@sunway.edu.my throughout the year.
You can make appointments with counsellors to seek advice on matters related to
SUNWAY CULTURAL EXCHANGE your further studies pathway and application to universities of your choice. Contact
• Organises inbound and outbound programmes for students to participate in +603 7491 8622 or email to placement@sunway.edu.my for more information.
• Provides opportunities for students to serve as hosts to international visiting
students 7.3 CENTRE FOR ENGLISH LANGUAGE STUDIES
• Provides avenues for international students to build a community and sense of The Centre for English Language Studies offers programmes to students who need
belonging in Sunway and Malaysia help developing English language skills.
E-mail: culturalexchange@sunway.edu.my
English language test: You may be requested to sit for a language proficiency test
at the beginning of your programme. Upon receiving your test results, you may be
required to undertake an English language programme before commencing your
study in the programme enrolled earlier. This depends on your score in the test.
Further enquiries can be directed to staff at the Centre for English Language Studies,
Level 3, North Building.
7.4 MALAYSIAN GOVERNMENT LOAN AND
SPONSORSHIP BODIES
7.4.1 PERBADANAN TABUNG PENDIDIKAN TINGGI
NASIONAL LOAN (PTPTN)
The PTPTN Education Loan Scheme was created for the purpose of providing
educational loans to students studying at local Higher Education Institutions.
Malaysian student who registered as a fulltime student in a programme approved
by the Ministry of Higher Education and registered with PTPTN may apply for the
STUDENT WELFARE loan. For further information, kindly refer to https://www.ptptn.gov.my/ or contact
• Provide Disability Services in understanding an individual’s condition to access us at financialaidgclu@sunway.edu.my.
support services.
• Aid and advice in handling situation like bullying and harassment, victim of 7.4.2 OTHER SPONSORSHIP BODIES
crime, conflict with peers, etc. All queries should be directed to Puan Norlela Abdul Rahman at norlelaar@sunway.
E-mail: welfare@sunway.edu.my edu.my for more information.
40 41SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
SECTION 8
Facilities
8.1 TUN HUSSEIN ONN
and Services
SUNWAY LIBRARY
The Tun Hussein Onn Sunway Library
constitutes 3 floors, with a total floor
area of 72,000 sq ft and provides
1,244 seats. The Library offers a range
of teaching and learning facilities,
including individual and group study,
Sunway University endeavours to promote Silent Zone, Group Project Pods,
equal opportunity for all students and Training Rooms, computer areas,
provide an environment free of unfair Viewing Zone, Collaborative Zones,
discrimination on grounds of gender, Instructional Lab and an extended
ethnicity, nationality, disability, marital hour study area which is open after
status, occupation, sexual orientation, the Library closes. The resource-rich
religion or belief, age or any other library is equipped with print, audio-
irrelevant distinction. As a registered full- visual and e-resource collections.
time student of Sunway University, you Users can access e-resources within
are eligible to gain access to the campus the campus and remotely from
facilities. The campus facilities include the anywhere in the world through their
IT services, the library, sports facilities and computers or mobile devices.
other common areas in the Student Centre.
The library’s website (https://library.
Selected facilities may be assigned to you sunway.edu.my) provides links to
in accordance to the programme and/or information about the library’s
subject you enrolled. Such facilities include collection, facilities and services.
science laboratories, language laboratory,
specialised computer laboratories, campus
accommodation, etc. Additional fees are
applicable for the use of these facilities
and the fees can be paid as part of the
programme fees or as a separate charge.
42 43SECTION 8 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
8.2 COMPUTING AND IT SERVICES 8.2.4 THE VINE, iZONE, eLEARN AND iMAIL
The VINE, iZone and eLearn are web applications specially designed for all
students to facilitate their online learning experience.
The VINE is an intranet that allows you to read latest announcements and
happenings in the University. You must use a computer within the campus
network to access the VINE at https://vine.sunway.edu.my.
iZone is a student portal system that can be accessed from outside the campus
via https://izone.sunway.edu.my. Depending on the programme enrolled, you
8.2.1 IT LEARNING LABS may use iZone for all (or selected) functions listed below:
Sunway campus has two main IT Learning Labs to support teaching and learning. • Download handbooks and official forms
Each has multiple labs of PCs and Macs with a comprehensive range of software. • Enrol subject(s) in a semester
Labs are accessible during: • View your enrolment history, progress report or semester results and statements
LEVEL 1, SOUTH WEST • 8:00am - 7:00pm, Monday to Friday eLearn is the campus learning management system that enable collaboration
OF SUNWAY COLLEGE • 8:30am - 1:00pm, Saturday between lecturers and students in their learning process. It facilitates the teaching
BUILDING • Closed on Sunday and Public Holiday and learning virtually via the Internet.
WEST WING OF SUNWAY • 8.00am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday All students are issued with an iMail email account. This is the official method
UNIVERSITY BUILDING • Closed on Saturday, Sunday and Public Holiday by which Sunway will communicate with students on a range of administrative
and academic matters. When corresponding with Sunway via email, students
must use their iMail email account. Using the iMail email account helps to ensure
8.2.2 IT HELPDESK COUNTERS students identity and validity of the communication.
Information Technology Services (ITS) operates helpdesks to assist students in
making effective use of the IT resources. To get support for any computer-related
matters, head over to any of the helpdesk located at the IT Learning Labs, or 8.3 BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE (BYOD) POLICY
choose any of the following options: The Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) Policy refers to students being required to
• Email : helpdesk@sunway.edu.my bring and use an appropriate digital device to connect, access, use or participate
• Telephone : 03-2022 5898, press “2” for student support in the learning platforms and software to support and enrich their studies. It
allows students to access a broad range of course related applications and access
8.2.3 STUDENT ACCESS ACCOUNTS AND WIFI vLab at https://vlab.sunway.edu.my using their personal devices in the classroom
All registered students are given their own Student ID & single login password or anywhere in the campus. Effective 1 Jan 2024, all students required to bring
that enables them to access the campus’ computing facilities. This includes their own device (BYOD) when they come on-campus for classes, academic
Internet access, WIFI access, and systems like eLearn and iZone portal. Student sessions and online examinations, or as required by their academic leaders.
accounts also give access to facilities like scanning, photocopying and printing. Further information is available at http://izone.sunway.edu.my/faq
WIFI internet access is available in all common and public areas of the campus.
44 45SECTION 8 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
8.5 SAFETY AND HEALTH
All staff and students of the University are expected to comply with the health
and safety arrangements within the campus.
It is the duty of all staff and students whilst within the University, be familiar with
the emergency instructions, telephone locations, emergency exits, assembly points,
fire alarm call points, fire extinguishers and first aid boxes in study or work areas:
Take reasonable care to maintain the health and safety of
themselves and others who may be affected by the way in
which they carry out their work
8.4 SCIENCE AND SPECIALISED LABORATORIES
Cooperate with all staff and students to enable them to carry
There are several other laboratories available within the campus which are mainly
out health and safety duties
used for teaching purposes. These laboratories are:
Report to supervisory staff any situation, working practice or
SCIENCE LABS procedures which may be dangerous or hazardous
They are used mainly by the Pre-University programmes for science related
subjects such as Biology, Chemistry and Physics; located at Level LG (Lower Report incidents to supervisory staff
Ground), South Building and Level LG (Lower Ground), North Building.
SCIENCE LABS MULTIMEDIA PRODUCTION LAB
Handle all equipment or materials with care
This lab houses a sound recording studio for the production of media contents;
located at Level LG (Lower Ground), South Building.
Comply to health and safety instructions
ENGLISH LANGUAGE LAB Follow the health and safety instructions given by the Health
The lab is used for teaching English Language programmes. The lab is located at and Safety department
Level 2, South Building.
LAB SAFETY: If you are studying in a programme which requires sessions
in the laboratories, your safety and that of your fellow students and staff is
of primary concern. Your academic department will provide specific rules
and regulations of the laboratories including the safe handling of materials.
You are strongly advised to take utmost care while handling specialised
equipment and inflammable or poisonous materials. Take no risks. Refer to
a member of staff immediately when necessary.
46 47SECTION 8 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
8.5.1 FIRE EMERGENCY 8.5.4 DISABILITY SERVICES
In a fire emergency, please do the following: Sunway strives towards promoting access and equity for all
1 DO NOT panic; walk rapidly to the nearest exit students and staff, which also caters for those who are physically
2 Close all doors and windows if you are in a room disabled or with long-term medical conditions. Some facilities in
3 Raise the alarm immediately by breaking nearest the campus building are friendly to all students and staff, such
fire alarm break glass as access ramps, lifts, toilets for the disabled, etc. There are also
4 Dial 8112 or +037491 8777 and give details of your designated parking lots on campus that can be reserved on a
location to the Security Officer request basis. However, enquiries regarding disability support
5 Leave the building and assemble at the nearest assembly point services can be made at the Health and Safety Office.
8.5.5 EVACUATION PLAN
IMPORTANT FIRE PRECAUTION NOTICE:
The Assembly Points of Sunway Campus are stated as below.
• DO NOT stop to collect your belongings or use the lift.
• DO NOT re-enter the building until it is declared safe to enter.
8.5.2 ACCIDENT AND INCIDENT REPORTING
All accidents involving injury of staff, students and visitors within the
campus must be reported to the Health and Safety department or the
Security department as soon as possible.
For accidents that involve serious injury (e.g. major fracture, head
injuries, etc.) the victim shall be taken to Sunway Medical Centre.
EVACUATION
ASSEMBY AREA
8.5.3 LIGHTNING WARNING Staff to assemble
For your safety and well-being please take note of the strobe at the designated
lights and warning alarm when using the field. Should the alarm assembly area and
ring and the strobe lights flash when you are on the field, you are according to the
specified Office
required to cease all outdoor activities, evacuate the field and
Level sequence
move indoors. You may resume your outdoor activities once the
strobe lights stop flashing and any danger of lightning has passed.
EMERGENCY CONTACT CONTACT NO.
HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICE 03-7491 8678 (EXT 8520)
NIGHTINGALE BAY (NURSE) 03-7491 8670 (EXT 8522)
Vine > Support Service > Health & Safety Department > Emergency Response Plan > Emergency Assembly Point
48 49SECTION 8 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
8.5.6 LOCATION OF HEALTH AND SAFETY OFFICE
& NIGHTINGALE BAY
The Health and Safety office is located at SW building, Ground floor
8.7 SPORTS FACILITIES
The University recognises the importance for staff and students to maintain
a balance in their work and studies with leisure. You may contact staff at the
8.6 CAMPUS SECURITY SERVICE Student LIFE Centre regarding sport clubs and facilities available. Indoor and
The campus security service operates around the clock – 24 hours a day, seven outdoor game facilities available on-campus includes:
days a week. In the event of an emergency, contact the following emergency • FIFA Certified Football Turf Field
numbers: • SunGym
• Internal phone: dial 8112 • Basketball/Volleyball Courts
• External phone or mobile: +603 7491 8777 • Tennis Court Netball/Dodgeball/Handball Court
• Badminton Courts
• Olympic-sized Swimming Pool
PERSONAL SECURITY: The University encourages a cooperative
• Table Tennis Tables
approach by students, staff and the campus security officers by working
• Dance Studio
together to create a safe campus environment.
• Jogging Track
RECOGNISE AND AVOID SITUATIONS OF POTENTIAL RISK: You
are strongly advised to take charge of your personal security within the
For information on sports tournaments and facilities, please come to the
campus and as well as outside campus, in order to reduce the opportunities
Student LIFE Centre or email sports@sunway.edu.my.
for crime.
50 51SECTION 8 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
8.8 ACCOMMODATION 8.9 BOOKSHOP
The Sunway House Student Residences Management manages the on-campus The bookshop is located at Level G (Ground) next to the cafeteria and is open
accommodation. Priority is given to full-time outstation and international Monday to Friday from 8.30am to 5.30pm, and Saturday from 9.00am to 1.00pm.
students, and places are allocated on a first-come-first-serve basis.
Besides selling text books and magazines, the bookshop offers a range of snacks,
All rooms in the residence are equipped with a set of basic furniture such as stationeries and gift items.
bed, study table and chair, book shelf and wardrobe. Each residence unit has a
dining table and chairs, sofas, shower heaters, pantry and refrigerator. Cooking
is not allowed in the residence unit. Meals can be taken at the residence café,
the campus cafeteria or nearby stalls/restaurants which are located within a short
walking distance from the campus.
Facilities provided within the on-campus accommodation include café,
convenience store, internet access, laundry services, sports amenities, study 8.10 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
rooms, prayer rooms (surau), etc. The University campus is located within the Sunway metropolitan area and can
be accessed via several public transport systems.
ELEVATED BUS RAPID TRANSIT: The current 5.4km BRT connects
seven stations including Sunway-Setia Jaya, Mentari, Sun-Med, SunU-
Monash, South Quay and USJ7, offer fast, cost effective and integrated
transport solution, in areas which are densely populated and in need of a
reliable public transportation system.
SUNWAY SHUTTLE BUS: Travelling within the Sunway Resort City is a
breeze as there is also the option of hopping on to the free of charge shuttle
buses provided by Sunway. This service is popular among other nearby
institutions’ students too.
TAXIS OR E-HAILING RIDES: Taxis or e-hailing rides can be booked
or hailed from the roadside. You may easily get a taxi near the University
entrance and at the taxi stop outside the Sun-U Residence (on-campus
accommodation).
TRAINS: The nearest station is the Subang Train Station located
approximately 6km from the University campus. The station is serviced
For further information on Sunway House Student Residences, you may visit by trains going to/from Kuala Lumpur connecting to other major cities in
their website at residence.sunwayhouse.com.my or email your enquiries to Malaysia.
enquiry_residence@sunway.edu.my.
OTHERS: SMART SELANGOR BUS, LRT, KTM
52 53SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
SECTION 10
SECTION 9
Lifestyle and
Other Services
Outside Campus
SUNWAY ORIGINALS: The shop located next to Student LIFE, sells the
University signature products ranging neck ties, scarves, mugs, pens, t-shirts,
key chains, planners, interesting pewter items and more. The opening hours are 10.1 CARPOOLING
from 11.00 am to 3.00 pm, Mondays to Fridays. For more information, please If you drive to the University, you should consider having a car pool. Carpooling
email sunwayoriginals@sunway.edu.my. involves sharing your vehicle with others or joining others in their vehicle. This
will help you save money on petrol and parking, reduces traffic congestion on
SUNWAY TRAVEL: All students and staff can use the facilities provided by the roads which is good for the environment.
this travel agency, which include schedule enquiries, booking of air tickets,
purchasing travel insurances, hotel accommodation and package tours. 10.2 SUNWAY PYRAMID SHOPPING MALL
Telephone +603 5639 9030 or email them at travelinfo@sunway.com.my
BANKS AND ATM MACHINES: There are several ATM machines available
within the University campus. They are located at Level G (Ground), South
Building (behind the Security Office) and Level UG (Upper Ground), New
University Building. The banks operating the ATM machines are Maybank and
CIMB bank. International students may obtain a letter from the International
Office to open a bank account with the respective bank.
SURAU: Prayer rooms are available in the campus buildings for Muslim staff
and students. These rooms are located at Level 1, North Building, Level 3, South
Building and Level M (Mezzanine), University Building.
VENDING MACHINES: Numerous vending machines are available in the
campus buildings as well as in the on- campus accommodation residences.
These machines offer a wide range of snacks and beverages.
LOCKER RENTAL: Lockers are available for rent. They are located within the BOWLING/CAFES/GYM/FOOD OR BEVERAGE OUTLETS/RESTAURANTS/
campus buildings. You can enquire about the service and charges at the Student RETAIL SHOPS: It is highly recommended that you shop at the Sunway
LIFE Centre or email studentsupport@sunway.edu.my. Pyramid shopping mall as you will get almost everything you need under one
roof. The mall opens daily from 10.00am to 10.00pm, seven days a week.
54 55SECTION 10 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
CINEMAS: The cinemas in Sunway Pyramid shopping mall offer the latest movie 10.3 SUNWAY LAGOON THEME PARK
titles in the country. Show your student ID card to purchase movie tickets at Sunway Lagoon Theme Park has over 90 attractions spread across 88 acres. It
discounted prices! features rides and attractions on its water and dry parks. Refer to their website
for their operating hours.
POST OFFICE: The nearest post office can be found in the Sunway Pyramid
shopping mall. This post office offers a wide range of postal services such as
ADDRESS: Sunway Lagoon, No 3 Jalan PJS 11/11, Bandar Sunway,
registered post, domestic and international postal service, payment of bills, etc.
47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
The post office is open 9.00am to 5.00pm, Monday to Friday. TELEPHONE: +603 5639 0000 FAX: +603 5639 0050
WEBSITE: http://sunwaylagoon.com/
HYPERMARKET: You may shop for your groceries at the hypermarket in the
Sunway Pyramid shopping mall and enjoy reasonable prices for all the items
you need.
CANOPY WALK:
Sunway Pyramid is
accessible by the Canopy
Walk from the 1st floor,
East Building. The ‘Canopy
Walk’ connects Sunway
University to Sunway
Pyramid (completed in
November 2010, 360m,
about 8-minute walk)
and Sunway University
to Monash University
Malaysia (completed in
September 2012). The 10.4 SUNWAY MEDICAL CENTRE
Canopy Walk is safe walk Sunway Medical Centre is one of the most reputable private hospital in Malaysia,
with 24- hour auxiliary offering a comprehensive range of health services and facilities including 24-
police patrol and a total of hour emergency services. The hospital is along the same road as the Sunway
35 CCTVs. campus, and is about 1km away.
ADDRESS: Sunway Pyramid Shopping Mall, No 3 Jalan PJS 11/15, Bandar ADDRESS: Sunway Medical Centre, No 5 Jalan Lagoon Selatan,
Sunway, 46150 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia. Bandar Sunway, 47500 Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
TELEPHONE: +603 7492 9998 FAX: +603 7492 6333 TELEPHONE: +603 7491 9191 FAX: +603 7491 8181
WEBSITE: https://www.sunwaypyramid.com/ WEBSITE: http://sunwaymedical.com/
56 57SECTION 10 SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
10.5 SUNWAY FUTUREX FARM 1O.6 42 KUALA LUMPUR (42KL)
Sunway FutureX Farm grows fresh, safe and nutritious produce in Sunway 42KL is a revolutionary computer science school that is completely free. The
City Kuala Lumpur’s sustainable smart farms. The innovation hub grows crops programme utilises an innovative educational model of peer-to-peer learning,
with the support of smart IoT & precision farming tech, less resources & zero project-based learning, and gamification. Pioneered in Paris, 42 is a global
pesticides. education network that has over 50 campuses around the world. 42KL is a part
of 42 Malaysia, a nation-building initiative by Sunway Education Group and
Sunway FutureX Farm’s mission is to grow planet-friendly produce around Khazanah Nasional Berhad. .
the country– fighting climate change, food wastage and nutrition lost through
complex food travel processes. To that end, the farm takes in students as
farm apprentices & coaches them hands-on on different sustainable farming
methods; while educating the public via farm tours and workshops. FutureX
Farm also performs R&D in partnership with Sunway University to create
innovative solutions for tackling local food security.
ADDRESS: Duplex, Jalan PJS11/26, Bandar Sunway, Subang Jaya,
Malaysia ADDRESS: Sunway FutureX, Duplex, Jalan PJS 11/26, Bandar Sunway,
TELEPHONE: 011-5621 6538 E-MAIL: xfarms@sunway.com.my 47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor
WEBSITE: http://sunwayxfarms.com/ E-MAIL: community@42kl.edu.my WEBSITE: www.42kl.edu.my
58 59SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
5. PERMISSION TO LEAVE THE EXAMINATION ROOM
APPENDIX A:
Candidates are not allowed to leave the examination hall/room within the first 30
Code of Conduct minutes and the last 15 minutes of the examination. Candidates can only leave
the examination room once (normally) to go to the toilet during the examination
accompanied by an invigilator.
in Examinations
6. CANDIDATE BEHAVIOUR
Smoking and eating are not permitted in the examination hall.
Failure to adhere to the following rules and regulations can result in a student being disqualified 7. EXAMINATION MATERIALS
for the examination. Candidates are not permitted to remove examination materials from the
examination room unless specified by the Chief Invigilator. All examination scripts
1. ARRIVAL TIME remain the property of the Examination Unit.
Candidates will be allowed to enter the examination hall/room 10 minutes before
commencement of the examination. Candidates arriving after 30 minutes of 8. CANDIDATE RESPONSIBILITIES
commencement of the examination will not be allowed into the examination room. Candidates are required to adhere to the instructions for the conduct of the
examination as set out in this document and any other instructions which may be
2. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS issued to candidates through the Chief Invigilator.
Candidates are required to observe any general instructions which may be given by
the Chief Invigilator and to note carefully any instructions that appear on the front
of the examination paper.
3. AUTHORISED MATERIALS
No writing paper or manuscripts may be taken into the examination room, other
than those specifically permitted. Bags must be left at the designated storage area
before a candidate approaches his or her assigned seat. Headwear (such as caps
or bandanas), pencil cases, electronic devices (such as smartphones, PDAs, or
iPods) and programmable calculators are not allowed. Candidates are not allowed
to borrow stationeries from another candidate.
4. COMMUNICATIONS IN THE EXAMINATION ROOM
No communication between candidates is allowed as soon as the candidate
enters the examination room until the candidate leaves the examination hall/
room. Candidates wishing to communicate with the Chief Invigilator should raise
their hand to attract attention. Any candidate that leaves his or her seat without
permission will be disqualified.
60 61SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
rubric for the examination;
APPENDIX B:
e. making use of electronic calculators and other portable electronic devices except
Guidelines on as permitted under the rubric of the examination, and in the provision for students
with additional assessment requirements;
f. accessing or receiving information in an examination by electronic means, such as
Academic Malpractice
from a mobile phone;
g. the placing of unauthorised items on the examination desk (including pencil cases,
and mobile phones);
h. the use of mobile telephones, or other communication devices during an
1. GENERAL assessment or examination;
1.1 Malpractice may be broadly defined as an attempt to gain an advantage over i. fabricating information in an examination, e.g. use of artificial citations; and/or
other students by the use of unfair and unacceptable methods. Common to all j. impersonating another student, or procuring an impersonator.
cases of malpractice is the attempt to affect by deceitful means an assessment of
academic ability, standing or progress. 2.2. Plagiarism consists of the unacknowledged use of someone else’s work and
attempting to pass it off as one’s own. It includes the representation of work:
1.2 The University shall have the right to investigate any allegation of academic written, visual, practical or otherwise, of any other person, including another
malpractice against a student and may take disciplinary action where it decides, on student or anonymous web-based material, or any institution, as the candidate’s
the balance of probabilities, that an act of malpractice has been committed. own. It may take the form of:
a. the verbatim copying or insertion of another’s work without clear identification
1.3. The University has a zero-tolerance policy towards academic malpractice and and acknowledgement - including the downloading of materials from the
treats lapses without leniency. To claim ignorance will not preclude the offender internet without proper referencing, published or unpublished and including
from the penalties accrued for having unintentionally committed academic work of another student;
malpractice. b. paraphrasing by, for instance, substituting a few words or phrases or altering
the order of presentation of another person’s work, or linking unacknowledged
2. TYPES OF MALPRACTICE sentences or phrases with words of one’s own;
2.1. Cheating in Examinations is an infringement of the rules governing conduct in c. unacknowledged quotation of phrases from another person’s work;
examinations or other forms of time-constrained assessment. Cheating includes d. the deliberate and detailed presentation of another’s concept as one’s own;
the following: e. work that has been completed, altered, translated or corrected by another
a. gaining access to any unauthorised material relating to an examination during person, and is submitted as if it was the student’s work;
or before the specified time; f. work that has already been published in another language, and has been
b. any form of communication with or copying from any other student or any translated into English by the student themselves or by another person;
other source during an examination, except in so far as the assessment criteria/ g. direct facsimile of an image, a sound or a performance without due
rubric may specifically permit; acknowledgement of its source;
c. communicating during an examination with any person other than a properly h. copying work that was originally completed and submitted by the student and
authorised invigilator or another authorised member of staff; resubmitted for another purpose, without acknowledgement of this, unless
d. introducing any written, printed or electronically stored information into an resubmission is allowed;
examination room, unless expressly permitted by the assessment criteria/
62 63APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
2.3. Collusion occurs when there is conscious collaboration, without official 2.7. Dishonest Practice
approval, between two or more students in the preparation and production of work Other forms of dishonest practice not falling within the above definitions may also
which is ultimately submitted by each in an identical or substantially similar form amount to malpractice. This includes, but is not limited to:
and/or is represented by each to be the product of his or her individual efforts. a. attempting to obtain special consideration by offering or receiving inducements
Collusion includes: or favours;
a. unauthorised collaboration with another student in the completion of work; b. making false declarations to deceive staff and/or to receive special
b. submission as entirely his/her own work, work done in collaboration with consideration;
another person, with the intention to gain an unfair advantage; c. procuring another person’s work or intentionally buying work from a website
c. knowingly permitting another student to copy all or part of one’s work which or other source;
that student then submits as their own unaided work; d. the submission of false claims of previously gained qualifications, research or
d. falsely claims involvement in approved and assessed group work and colludes experience in order to gain credit for prior learning;
with that group in order to deceive the lecturer or tutor. e. Ensuring the non-availability of books, journal articles or other reference
materials in the library by deliberately removing or mis-shelving them so that
2.4. Fabrication or Falsification other students may not be able to find and use the materials.
Fabrication of results occurs when a candidate falsely claims to have, for example,
carried out tests, research or observations as part of his/her assessed work, or 3. STUDENT RESPONSIBILITY
presents fabricated results with the object of gaining an advantage. Fabrication may 3.1. Students have a responsibility to be aware of the policy and procedures regarding
also include: academic malpractice, to understand the seriousness of academic malpractice and
a. falsifying data or material in the presentation of laboratory reports; fieldwork to take every reasonable step to ensure that academic malpractice does not occur.
reports, projects, work-based learning, etc.;
b. presentation of artificial references or other source material purporting to 3.2. It is the responsibility of the student to take reasonable precautions to guard against
demonstrate a depth of reading or knowledge beyond that undertaken, e.g. unauthorised access by others to his/her work, both before and after assessment.
embellishment of the bibliography;
c. alterations and supplementing the data in order to misrepresent the results; 4. INITIAL HANDLING OF ACADEMIC MALPRACTICE
d. falsifying evidence in support of applications, for example for mitigating The initial procedures for handling academic malpractice vary with regard to types
circumstances or academic appeals. of academic malpractice, the level of studies, the severity of the infringement and
whether there has been more than one infringement. An investigation of the
2.5. Impersonation is the assumption by one person of the identity of another person incident of academic malpractice will follow after initial procedures.
with the intent to deceive or to gain an unfair advantage in the assessment process.
4.1. Academic Malpractice in Examinations
2.6. Breaches of Confidentiality occur when a student does not follow confidentiality 4.1.1. Where an invigilator suspects that any form of cheating, as defined in an
and/or anonymity protocols and includes: examination, the invigilator should:
a. direct naming of an individual or organisation where protocols prohibit this; a. inform the students of her/his suspicions and the intention to report the
b. inclusion of documentation that links to privileged information; incident;
c. provision of information that could lead to the identification of individuals b. confiscate any relevant evidence (e.g. any unauthorised material)
or organisations, e.g. dates of birth, hospital record numbers, addresses or c. where possible, have steps (a) and (b) witnessed by another invigilator;
reference to unusual d. annotate the student’s script and endorse the front cover at the point which
64 65APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
the alleged cheating occurred; 4.3. Naïve Offence and First Offence
e. return the script to the student and permit the student to continue with the 4.3.1. Instances of first offences will be dealt with Programme Leaders who will establish
examination and to conclude at the normal stipulated time of the examination. whether a prima facie case exists. Once a prima facie case is established the case is
to be reported to HOD and ASQ.
4.1.2. Where the procedure outlined in 4.1.1 above leads to disturbance or disruption, or
where the procedure is invoked against a student for a second time in an examination; 4.3.2. HOD will convene a Panel of Inquiry consisting of three members of academic
the invigilator has the authority to expel the student from the examination. The staff. The Panel should not include a member of staff involved in delivering or
invigilator must record the action taken in their report of the examination. assessing the course(s) concerned. The student and Programme Leader will also
be invited to attend the hearing. One academic staff member should be appointed
4.1.3. No later than one (1) working day after the conclusion of the examination, the as Secretary for the Panel.
invigilator will submit the Academic Malpractice Notification Form and a report to
the Director of Student Administration and Programme Leader. 4.3.3. The Panel will review the evidence and ask the student to present any information
or reasons that may disprove the allegation. After considering the available
4.1.4. The report from the invigilator should provide an account of malpractice (including information the Panel may arrive at one of the following outcomes:
the time of the incident and the student’s response to the allegation) and be a. Case Dismissed
accompanied by any relevant supporting evidence (including any confiscated b. Case Upheld
materials). Where possible, the report should include comments and signatures of
other invigilators who were present at the time the alleged malpractice took place. 4.4. Subsequent Offences
4.4.1. If the alleged academic malpractice is not a first offence the case will be referred
4.1.5. Thereafter, the Academic Malpractice Investigation procedure will take place. to the Provost’s Office. The Provost will convene a Panel of Inquiry of three members
of academic staff who are not involved in delivering or assessing the course(s)
4.2. Academic Malpractice Investigation Procedure concerned. The Provost will appoint the Panel chair and an administrative staff
4.2.1. Upon receipt of the Academic Malpractice Notification form, the Programme Leader member to act as Secretary for the Panel. The student will be invited to the Panel
will inform the student in writing of the allegation, enclosing the report, and hearing and the Panel may also invite the Programme Leader, subject leader, HoD
providing a copy of this document so that the student understands the procedure or any other person with knowledge relevant to the case.
to be followed in such cases. The student will be given five (5) working days from
sending the written notice to respond to the allegation and will be informed that: 4.4.2. The panel will review the evidence and ask the student to present any information
a. if the student does not reply within the time stipulated it will be assumed or reasons that may disprove the allegation. After considering the available
that the student has admitted the malpractice. Then the necessary procedures information the Panel may arrive at one of the following outcomes:
shall be conducted in a form commensurate with the nature of the malpractice. a. Case Dismissed
b. if the student wishes to contest the allegation, he/she must give written notice b. Case Upheld
to that effect to the Programme Leader within five (5) working days from the
date that the original notice was sent.
4.2.2. The academic malpractice investigation procedures applied will be determined by
whether the student has previously committed an academic offence.
66 67APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
4.5 Procedures for handling academic malpractice offences are summarised in the 4.6. Conduct of the Formal Hearing
table below: 4.6.1. The student against whom the allegation has been made will be invited to the
formal hearing. He/ She has the right to be accompanied by a friend for support,
but this person must be a member of the University community.
TYPE OF OFFENCE CASE DISMISSED CASE UPHELD
4.6.2. A student’s failure to attend or to submit evidence to the Panel will not prevent
Naive and First 1. HoD advises ASQ Naive and Minor Offence
Offence and PL on the 1. Any penalty or sanction is the Panel from proceeding with its investigation. However, if the student is prevented
outcome. determined at Department from attending through ill health or other extenuating circumstances, the Panel may
2. PL informs the and School level in line with
decide to adjourn its proceedings until a later date agreed by the Panel and the
student, and ASQ the recommended tariffs set
to strike the record out below. student.
of an academic 2. HoD informs students and
malpractice ASQ of the outcome.
4.7. Student Appeal
allegation.
Major Offence 4.7.1. The student against whom an allegation of academic malpractice has been upheld
The case is referred with a may make an appeal in writing within five (5) working days of receiving notification
recommended penalty and/
of the outcome of the Panel of Inquiry Hearing in accordance with Sunway University
or sanction to the Provost. The
Student Appeals Policy and Procedure.
Provost may confirm, amend or
request the Panel to recommend
an alternative penalty or 4.8. Penalties for Malpractice
sanction. The Provost’s Office
4.8.1. If a student is found to have committed malpractice in one or more assessments in
(PO) informs the student,
Department, School and Registry a single assessment cycle, the Panel of Inquiry may:
of the outcome. a. decide that no further action is required;
b. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as
a First Attempt (mark not capped);
c. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as
Subsequent PO informs student, Minor and Major Offence
a Second Attempt capped at the minimum pass mark;
Offences and ASQ to strike 1. Panel advises PO of outcome
record of an academic and recommends a penalty d. require resubmission of the relevant piece(s) of work by a specific deadline as
malpractice allegation and/or sanction to the Provost. a Final Attempt capped at the minimum pass mark;
2. The Provost may confirm,
e. recommend repeating the subject and with results capped at the minimum
amend or request the Panel to
pass mark;
recommend an alternative
penalty or sanction. The PO f. deem the student to have failed in the specific element of assessment in which
notifies the student, the malpractice occurred;
Department, School and
g. deem the student to have failed in all the assessments for the subject; and
Registry.
h. make a recommendation about the student’s progression or the conferment of
Note: If the sanction an award in the case where a student is found to have committed grave
recommended by the Panel results
malpractice or to have infringed more than once.
in dismissal or revocation of any
award, the sanction may only be i. Recommend suspension or expulsion from the programme and the University;
approved by the Vice-Chancellor. j. make a recommendation for the degree or other award that is held by the
68 69APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
student to be revoked by the University.
APPENDIX C:
4.8.2. If academic malpractice is suspected in group work and if it cannot be established Arrangements for
which individual(s) is/are responsible, the whole group will be deemed Responsible,
provided that there is sufficient evidence to substantiate the allegations on the the Assessment of
balance of probability.
Students with
4.8.3. If collusion is suspected and if after investigation it cannot be established which
individual(s) is/are responsible, all students involved will be deemed responsible,
Disabilities
provided there is sufficient evidence to substantiate the allegations on the balance
of probability.
4.8.4. The table below offers guidelines on the standard penalties for each type of
offence. The University will make special arrangements where possible, to ensure fair assessment
of students with disabilities or unforeseen medical circumstances. The following listing
contains examples of modifications/ adjustments which may need to be made.
TYPE OF OFFENCE CASE DISMISSED CASE UPHELD
Naive 1. Student to resubmit Not Applicable 1. ALTERNATIVE LOCATIONS FOR ASSESSMENT
the whole • Specific location agreed within a conventional examination room
assessment.
• Adapted examination furniture/ special lighting provided
2. Marks will not be
• Separate room for examinations
capped at 40%.
• Physical access to the location and to lavatory facilities suitable for the disabled
First Offence 3. Warning Letter will 1. Student will be awarded 0
be issued marks and is required to 2. ADJUSTMENTS TO THE TIMING OF ASSESSMENT
4. Student to resubmit repeat the subject.
• Extra time agreed
the whole 2. Marks for the repeated
• Rest periods/ breaks agreed within a lengthy time-span.
assessment subject will be capped at
5. Marks will be 40%.
capped at 40% 3. USE OF SPECIFIC EQUIPMENT OR SOFTWARE
• Use of PC/ laptop for examinations (with restrictions on what can be imported
Subsequent Not Applicable 1. Student will be awarded 0
into the examination setting)
Offence marks and is required to
• Use of video/ tape recorder for oral answers
repeat the whole subject.
2. Marks for the repeated
subject will be capped at 40% 4. PROCEDURES FOR MAKING SPECIAL ARRANGEMENTS
3. Suspension of the following
• Students who need special arrangements are advised to discuss their
semester.
requirements with the Dean of School at the start of the semester and provide
Note: Further repeat of an up-to-date documentary evidence to support their needs.
academic malpractice may lead
• A written request is submitted to the Examination Unit with details of specific
to expulsion.
70 71APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
arrangements and approved by the Dean of School. APPENDIX D:
• The request has to be submitted at least four weeks before any examination
Guidelines on
in order to enable the claim for special needs to be fully considered and
arrangements made. Students who have had additional arrangements in a
previous year should renew the arrangements and indicate any necessary Academic Appeal
changes to previous requirements.
• Students should be aware that additional examination arrangements will be
reported to the chair of the Programme Assessment Board. Exceptional
arrangements will need to receive the approval of the Chair of the Board who 1 . POLICY
may consult with the appropriate subject lecturers. Sunway University is committed to giving its students the best experience possible.
However, there may be occasions when students may feel that they have grounds
Students who require additional examination arrangements to be made in examinations to appeal against an academic decision or request for a formal review of a decision
as a result of unforeseen medical circumstances are required to follow the same process made by a Sunway University academic body or officer.
as outlined above, supported by appropriate medical certification. Students are required The Student Appeals Policy provides a framework for the University to respond
to submit requests and medical certification as soon as possible following the accident/ to appeals in a way that contributes to the University’s supportive and fair learning
illness/diagnosis in order to allow time for such provision to be made. environment and is consistent with the principles of fairness and equal opportunity.
The University expects students to appreciate that appeals will not always result
in their preferred conclusion. Regardless of the decision, students will be informed
of the outcome of a formal appeal and the reasons for it.
1.1. The University reserves the right to decline to pursue an appeal, including but
not limited to circumstances where another process is more appropriate, or
where the student does not have sufficient grounds to lodge an appeal.
1.2. Consideration of an appeal will be restricted to circumstances where:
a. there has been or could have been an incorrect application of policies,
procedures or administrative processes that may have disadvantaged the
student;
b. there is evidence of mitigating circumstances which may have affected the
student’s performances of which the University was not aware when the
decision was taken, and which could not reasonably have been presented to
the University earlier;
c. there is evidence that the decision made did not take any mitigating
circumstances into sufficient account, or that the decision made is manifestly
unreasonable;
d. there is evidence of unfair or discriminatory practice;
e. additional relevant evidence has come to light since the decision was taken which
could not have been made available earlier.
72 73APPENDIX B SUNWAY UNIVERSITY STUDENT HANDBOOK
1.3. The following matters do not constitute grounds for an appeal: 3.2. The School Appeals Committee may: (i) Uphold the appeal or (ii) Reject the appeal
a. Disagreement with a mark or grade or a degree classification awarded;
b. Challenges to academic judgements of examiners on an assessment outcome 3.3. Where the appeal is upheld, the Committee shall recommend to the Provost Office
or level of the award granted; such reasonable actions, but excluding any financial compensation, it deems
c. Claims that academic performance, including attendance, was adversely appropriate to remedy the matter.
affected by mitigating circumstances, such as ill-health, but for which no
contemporary medical or other appropriate evidence is provided; 3.4. The Committee may defer any decision where it feels a further investigation
d. Claims that academic performance, including attendance, was adversely is necessary to enable a reasonable judgment to be made. If the judgement is
affected by mitigating circumstances, which were not, but which could, deferred, the Chair of the Committee shall initiate necessary investigations, and
reasonably, have been disclosed prior to the decision being made.1 arrange of the Committee to reconvene to re-consider the appeal.
e. Complaints against delivery of teaching and methods of assessment.
3.5. When the Committee finds that there are valid circumstances for appeal but is
2. GENERAL PROCEDURE unable to uphold the appeal since it requires the School to operate outside the
2.1. An appeal may be made by completing and submitting the appropriate form boundaries of the University Academic Regulations, the Committee shall refer the
for appeals electronically. Independent documentary evidence or information appeal to the Stage 2.
which is relevant to the case must be included to support the appeals
3.6. Except where the appeal is referred to the Stage 2, the judgement of the School
2.2. For rechecking of assessment marks, an appeal must be made to the Examination Appeals Committee will be final.
Unit, Registry Office by filling in the Student Appeals Form: Assessment Result
within fifteen (15) working days from the assessment result release date. 4. PROCEDURE: STAGE 2 (APPEALS TO THE APPEALS AND SPECIAL
CASE COMMITTEE)
2.3. For other academic matters, an appeal must be made to the School also within 4.1. Under stage 2, appeals shall be considered by the Appeals and Special Cases
fifteen (15) working days of receiving notification from the School by filling in the Committee of the University (ASCC), or other equivalent committee officially
Student Appeals Form (Academic Matters). recognised by the University for the purposes of considering stage 2 appeals.
2.4. An application which does not satisfy the grounds for appeal as stipulated in the 4.2. The student shall be notified on the outcome of the ASCC and any remedial steps
Student Appeals Policy will be dismissed. to be taken. This includes the reasons why the appeal was rejected.
2.5. There are various stages of the appeal process. A student must exhaust any lower 4.3. The Committee may defer any decision where it feels further investigation is
level of appeal before proceeding to the next higher level. necessary to enable reasonable judgment to be made. If judgement is deferred,
the Chair of the Committee shall initiate necessary investigations, and arrange of
3. PROCEDURE: STAGE 1 (APPEAL TO THE SCHOOL) the Committee to reconvene to re-consider the appeal.
3.1. Under stage 1, appeals shall be considered by the School Appeals Committee or
another equivalent committee officially recognised by the University for the 4.4. The Decision of ASCC is final and there shall be no further rights of appeal.
purposes of considering student appeals. The Committee shall review the evidence
provided by the student, and may in exceptional circumstances, and at its sole
discretion, invite the student to present their case in person. 1 Mitigating circumstance are covered under the University Mitigating Circumstances Policy, which can be found on the
ASQ pages of the Vine and on eLearn.
74 75Published by Registry
Operating Address (Bandar Sunway)
No. 5, Jalan Universiti, Sunway City Kuala Lumpur,
47500 Subang Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel: +6 (03) 7491 8622 Fax: +6 (03) 5635 8633
Email: registry@sunway.edu.my